CORE REQUIREMENTS: NTC University-Wide Core
URL: https://catalog.tulane.edu/newcomb-tulane/

=== COURSE CODES MENTIONED ===
AERO 1010, AERO 1011, AERO 1020, AERO 1021, AERO 1210, AERO 1220, AERO 1290, AERO 1940, AERO 2010, AERO 2011, AERO 2020, AERO 2021, AERO 2390, AERO 2940, AERO 3010, AERO 3011, AERO 3020, AERO 3021, AERO 4010, AERO 4011, AERO 4020, AERO 4021, AERO 5190, AERO 5380, AERO 5390, AERO 5940, AERO 1020, AERO 1021, AERO 2020, AERO 2021, AERO 3020, AERO 3021, AERO 4020, AERO 4021, COLQ 1010, COLQ 1020, COLQ 1010, COLQ 1020, CRDV 1060, CRDV 1070, CRDV 1090, DATA 1010, DATA 1940, DATA 2020, DATA 2030, DATA 2040, DATA 2060, DATA 2150, DATA 2810, DATA 2811, DATA 2940, DATA 3010, DATA 3080, DATA 3520, DATA 3530, DATA 3810, DATA 3940, DATA 4030, DATA 4040, DATA 4910, DATA 4920, DATA 1010, EAPP 1000, EAPP 1050, EAPP 1940, EAPP 3010, EAPP 3510, EAPP 3520, EAPP 3530, EAPP 3810, EAPP 3820, EAPP 3830, EAPP 3840, EAPP 3890, EAPP 1000, EAPP 1050, EAPP 3510, EAPP 3520, ENGL 1010, ENGL 1011, ENGL 1010, ENGL 1011, INTR 1990, INTR 1990, INTU 1000, INTU 1010, INTU 1011, INTU 1890, INTU 2000, INTU 2020, INTU 2500, INTU 3000, INTU 3010, INTU 3020, INTU 3030, INTU 3050, INTU 3060, INTU 3890, INTU 3891, INTU 3910, INTU 3920, INTU 4000, INTU 4310, INTU 4340, INTU 4560, INTU 4570, INTU 5380, INTU 6850, INTU 7000, INTU 7010, INTU 1000, INTU 2000, INTU 3000, INTU 3010, INTU 3020, INTU 3030, MATH 1210, MATH 1230, MILS 1010, MILS 1011, MILS 1020, MILS 1021, MILS 1940, MILS 2010, MILS 2011, MILS 2020, MILS 2021, MILS 2530, MILS 2940, MILS 3010, MILS 3011, MILS 3020, MILS 3021, MILS 4010, MILS 4011, MILS 4020, MILS 4021, MILS 4910, MILS 4920, MILS 5190, MILS 5940, MILS 1010, MILS 1011, MILS 1020, MILS 1021, MILS 2010, MILS 2011, MILS 2020, MILS 2021, MILS 3010, MILS 3011, MILS 3020, MILS 3021, MILS 4010, MILS 4011, MILS 4020, MILS 4021, NAVS 1010, NAVS 1011, NAVS 1020, NAVS 1021, NAVS 1060, NAVS 1290, NAVS 1940, NAVS 2000, NAVS 2001, NAVS 2010, NAVS 2011, NAVS 2390, NAVS 2940, NAVS 3010, NAVS 3011, NAVS 3020, NAVS 3021, NAVS 3030, NAVS 3031, NAVS 3050, NAVS 3051, NAVS 3940, NAVS 4010, NAVS 4011, NAVS 4020, NAVS 4021, NAVS 4030, NAVS 4031, NAVS 4890, NAVS 4910, NAVS 4940, NAVS 5190, NAVS 5380, NAVS 5390, NAVS 5940, NAVS 1011, NAVS 1020, NAVS 3010, NAVS 3050, NAVS 3051, NAVS 4010, NAVS 4020, NAVS 4030, NAVS 4031, TIDE 1000, TIDE 1003, TIDE 1005, TIDE 1010, TIDE 1011, TIDE 1013, TIDE 1014, TIDE 1015, TIDE 1016, TIDE 1017, TIDE 1018, TIDE 1019, TIDE 1020, TIDE 1023, TIDE 1026, TIDE 1027, TIDE 1028, TIDE 1030, TIDE 1031, TIDE 1032, TIDE 1033, TIDE 1034, TIDE 1035, TIDE 1036, TIDE 1038, TIDE 1039, TIDE 1040, TIDE 1043, TIDE 1044, TIDE 1046, TIDE 1047, TIDE 1048, TIDE 1049, TIDE 1051, TIDE 1052, TIDE 1053, TIDE 1054, TIDE 1056, TIDE 1057, TIDE 1058, TIDE 1059, TIDE 1060, TIDE 1061, TIDE 1062, TIDE 1063, TIDE 1064, TIDE 1066, TIDE 1067, TIDE 1068, TIDE 1070, TIDE 1071, TIDE 1072, TIDE 1073, TIDE 1074, TIDE 1076, TIDE 1077, TIDE 1078, TIDE 1079, TIDE 1081, TIDE 1082, TIDE 1083, TIDE 1084, TIDE 1086, TIDE 1087, TIDE 1088, TIDE 1089, TIDE 1090, TIDE 1091, TIDE 1092, TIDE 1093, TIDE 1094, TIDE 1096, TIDE 1097, TIDE 1098, TIDE 1101, TIDE 1102, TIDE 1103, TIDE 1105, TIDE 1107, TIDE 1113, TIDE 1117, TIDE 1122, TIDE 1123, TIDE 1124, TIDE 1125, TIDE 1126, TIDE 1127, TIDE 1128, TIDE 1145, TIDE 1165, TIDE 1185, TIDE 1190, TIDE 1206, TIDE 1210, TIDE 1224, TIDE 1225, TIDE 1230, TIDE 1235, TIDE 1240, TIDE 1245, TIDE 1250, TIDE 1251, TIDE 1255, TIDE 1265, TIDE 1275, TIDE 1285, TIDE 1295, TIDE 1305, TIDE 1315, TIDE 1317, TIDE 1325, TIDE 1335, TIDE 1345, TIDE 1355, TIDE 1365, TIDE 1375, TIDE 1385, TIDE 1390, TIDE 1405, TIDE 1415, TIDE 1425, TIDE 1430, TIDE 1435, TIDE 1445, TIDE 1455, TIDE 1465, TIDE 1475, TIDE 1485, TIDE 1500, TIDE 1515, TIDE 1525, TIDE 1535, TIDE 1545, TIDE 1555, TIDE 1615, TIDE 1680, TIDE 1700, TIDE 1713, TIDE 1742, TIDE 1810, TIDE 1880, TIDE 1890, TIDE 1891, TIDE 1892, TIDE 1893, TIDE 1894, TIDE 1895, TIDE 1896, TIDE 1897, TIDE 1898, TIDE 1899, TIDE 1911, TIDE 1915, TIDE 1925, TIDE 1950, TIDE 1970, TIDE 1975, TIDE 1981, TIDE 1982, TIDE 1983, TIDE 1984, TIDE 1985, TIDE 1898, TIDR 1014, TIDR 1015, TIDR 1016, TIDR 1018, TIDR 1043, TIDR 1090, TIDR 1117, TIDR 1185, TIDR 1225, TIDR 1265, TIDR 1317, TIDR 1415, TIDR 1500, TIDR 1725, TIDR 1890, TIDR 1898, TIDR 1925, TIDR 1981, TIDR 1983, TIDR 1985, TIDR 1890

=== FULL TEXT ===
Contact Information
Mussafer Hall
Tulane University
New Orleans, LA 70118
Phone: (504) 865-5720
Web:
https://college.tulane.edu
Email:
NewcombTulaneCollege@tulane.edu
Mollye M. Demosthenidy, JD, MHA
Dean
Introduction
Newcomb-Tulane College (NTC) is the home of the undergraduate academic experience
. As the undergraduate degree-granting body of Tulane University,  NTC is focused on providing a top tier education to  students through the core curriculum and choice of major - or interdisciplinary combination of majors. The College educates its multifaceted student body through its commitment to academic breadth and depth, and engaged scholarship and research. The various departments within the College guide students along their individual path to academic success and personal growth, providing both a foundation of support and a multitude of ways to elevate their experience. We invite you to explore the
College's website
to learn more about how NTC supports and empowers students throughout their undergraduate careers.
Related Centers, Programs, and Services
Altman Program in International Studies & Business
Center for Global Education
Center for Public Service
Climate Change: Science and Practice Minor
Newcomb Institute
Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC)
Newcomb-Tulane College Policies
The University reserves the right to change any of its rules, courses, regulations, and charges without notice and to make such changes applicable to students already registered as well as to new students. Students should review material provided for them, including their online degree audit, and seek aid and direction from academic advisers, faculty advisers, and deans. However, each student must accept full responsibility for knowledge of and compliance with the policies of Tulane University and its schools and for the fulfillment of requirements for the course of study selected.
Academic Standing
Continuation Requirements
Cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA) Requirements
Minimum Earned Hours Milestones
Academic Probation
Academic Dismissal
Other Considerations for Continuation
Auditing Courses
Changes to Academic Records
Class Attendance
Class Status
Code of Academic Conduct
Commencement Policies and Procedures
​Walking, Not Graduating
Consortium Registration
Course Loads
Course Repeatability
Courses Repeatable for Credit
Courses Not Designated as "Repeatable for Credit"
Grades for Repeated Courses (Retake Courses)
Exceptions to Repeat Course Policy
Course Sequencing
Credit Expiration
Dean's List
Final Examination Scheduling
Grades/Grading
Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory (S/U) Grading Option
In-Progress (IP) Grades
Incomplete (I) Grades
Withdrawn (W/WF/UW) Grades
Grade Complaints and Grievance Procedure
Honors Thesis
Latin Honors
Leave of Absence
Policy Changes
Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Option
Scholarly Honors
Study Abroad Policies
​
Overview
Approved Semester and Yearlong Options
Independent Scholar Option (ISO)
Credits and Grades
Advising for Study Abroad
Eligibility and Selection Criteria
Academic Integrity and Code of Student Conduct
Tuition and Fees
Financial Aid and Scholarships
Tulane Summer Programs
Leave of Absence (LOA) Study Abroad
Non-Tulane Summer Programs
Transferring Credit to Tulane University
Transferring Credit Earned Prior to Matriculating at Tulane University
Transferring Credit Earned After Matriculation at Tulane University
Transfer Credit and Academic Concentrations
Withdrawal
Voluntary
Medical
Involuntary
Refunds
Academic Standing
Full-time Newcomb-Tulane College students are expected to make satisfactory progress toward their degree each semester. To remain in good academic standing, students must meet minimum standards, which are based on the cumulative grade point average and/or on meeting milestones for credit hours earned at Tulane. Students are responsible for knowing their academic standing at all times.
Continuation Requirements
Students who earn at least 12 credits per full-time semester at Tulane and achieve at least the minimum cumulative grade-point average for good standing as indicated below are considered to be making satisfactory progress toward the baccalaureate degree and thus are in good academic standing. Policies that apply to students who do not meet these academic standards are described below.
Cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA) Requirements
Minimum cumulative GPA requirements are based on the total number of earned hours (EHRS) in undergraduate coursework attempted at Tulane University and exclude both non-credit and satisfactory/unsatisfactory courses.
The minimum cumulative GPA for good academic standing is 1.600 in 0-24 EHRS, 1.800 in 24-48 EHRS, and 2.000 in 49 or more EHRS.
GPA NTC
Total Earned Hours at Tulane
Minimum Cumulative GPA for Good Standing
0 to 24
1.600
25 to 48
1.800
49 or more
2.000
Students on scholarships through the Office of Financial Aid or other campus offices may have different minimum GPA requirements. Students should consult with those offices and be aware of those minimums as well.
Minimum Earned Hours Milestones
As described in the policy on
Course Loads
, students should plan to earn at least 15 credit hours per semester to complete a bachelor’s degree in four years. However, to maintain full-time status, students must enroll in a minimum of 12 credit hours per semester. Maintaining good academic standing requires reaching milestones based on accumulating at least the minimum of 12 credits for each full-time semester enrolled. For example:
Minimum Earned Hours Milestones
Full-time Semesters Completed
Minimum Earned Hours Milestones
After the first semester
12
After two semesters
24
After four semesters
48
After six semesters
72
After eight semesters
96
Academic Probation
Full-time undergraduate students enrolled in NTC are degree-seeking students. Those students who are not making satisfactory progress toward a degree are not permitted to remain enrolled at the university. At the conclusion of each semester, students’ progress to degree is evaluated. Failing to meet the minimum academic standards in either the GPA or earned hours, will cause a student to no longer be in good academic standing and will result in academic probation. Students may not appeal the status of academic probation. Students may only spend two consecutive semesters on academic probation.
Academic Dismissal
Failure to return to good academic standing following two consecutive semesters of academic probation will result in academic dismissal from Tulane University. Dismissed students may not enroll in any school or academic program of Tulane University during the dismissal period. After a minimum of one semester away from Tulane, a dismissed student can apply to the NTC Dean for readmission.
Students may appeal their academic dismissal within 15 days of the decision notification date. Appeal forms are available on the NTC website. The NTC Dean will review all appeals and render a decision within 10 business days of receipt.
During the dismissal period, students may attend another accredited institution in an effort to strengthen their academic record. If the NTC Dean readmits a student after academic dismissal, the student can seek transfer credit through the process described in the
Transferring Credit to Tulane University
policy.
Other Considerations for Continuation
The NTC Dean in consultation with the Committee on Academic Requirements may, at any time, dismiss or place on probation any student who has given evidence of academic irresponsibility.
Such evidence may include:
failure to earn a minimum of 12 credit hours in any semester unless the student has been granted part-time status,
failure to maintain the minimum GPA,
non- compliance with academic probation,
failure to attend class regularly,
failure to complete papers, examinations, or other work on time.
Auditing Courses
A student registered for a full-time course load (at least 12 credits) may audit one course without credit each semester in addition to his or her full-time course load after completing formal registration and obtaining approval of the instructor for the course. Although credit is not granted for audited courses, such courses are considered part of the student's semester course load and are recorded on the student's permanent record. An audit enrollment counts toward a student's maximum credit hours as described in the policy on
Course Loads
. The last day to elect "audit" as the grade type for an enrolled course is posted in the
Undergraduate Academic Calendar
.
Changes to Academic Records
No changes to course enrollment status, grades or grade types will be made more than three years after the close of the semester in which the course was offered. This rule places a three-year time limit on the retroactive adding or dropping of courses or requesting grade changes.
Class Attendance
Students are expected to attend all classes unless they are ill or prevented from attending by exceptional circumstances. Instructors may establish policies for attendance and making up missed work in their classes, which are announced at the beginning of the semester and included on their syllabi. Students who find it necessary to miss class are responsible for obtaining notes on material covered in lectures or other class sessions.
Students are expected to negotiate any adjustments in academic requirements due to illness directly with their professors. Students are responsible for notifying instructors about absences that result from serious illnesses, injuries, or critical personal problems. If an illness or injury is serious enough to cause a student to miss more than two weeks of class, they are strongly advised to consider a medical leave.
Instructors are authorized to lower the grades of students who are absent excessively without a satisfactory excuse or do not make up work missed because of absences. With the approval of the Dean (or the Dean's designee), an instructor may have a student who has excessive absences involuntarily dropped from a course with a WF grade after written warning at any time during the semester.
Student-Athletes and ROTC members participating in an officially sanctioned, scheduled university  activity that requires out of town travel should be given the opportunity to make up class assignments or other graded assignments missed as a result of their participation and associated travel. Further these students' attendance grades shall not be penalized for missed course meetings resulting from such events.
It is the responsibility of the student to make arrangements with the instructor for making up the work prior to any missed scheduled examination or other missed assignment. In the process, students should be afforded the same substantive opportunity to make up missed work and examinations, and the faculty member will have discretion on the content, process, and timeline of such missed work.
Updated by the Newcomb-Tulane College Faculty, February 12, 2025
Class Status
Class status is determined by the total number of earned credit hours; credit hours for currently enrolled courses are not included. Credit for coursework taken at another institution is included only after the transfer credit approval process and credit posting are complete.
Class Status
Classification
Earned Credits
First-Year
0-24 earned credit hours
Sophomores
25-56 earned credit hours
Juniors
57-86 earned credit hours
Seniors
87 or more earned credit hours
Code of Academic Conduct
This Code applies to all undergraduate students, full-time, and part-time, in Tulane University. The full text and additional information is available at the following website:
https://college.tulane.edu/academics/academic-integrity
.
Commencement Policies and Procedures
A student expecting to receive a degree in May must apply for graduation with their Newcomb-Tulane College's academic advisor by October 1 of the previous year. Students expecting to complete their degree requirements at any other time should consult their academic advisor for appropriate information. The commencement ceremony is held only in May. Students completing degree requirements in August or December may, however, participate in the ceremony held the following May. All graduates who will not attend the commencement ceremony should contact their Newcomb-Tulane academic advisor and request that their degree be awarded in absentia. All financial obligations to the University must be cleared before the Registrar will release a diploma or a transcript.
Walking, Not Graduating
Newcomb-Tulane College undergraduates who are close to completing all necessary degree requirements may request permission to walk in their school’s diploma ceremony and the university’s Commencement ceremony after filing an approved plan for completion with College Advising. An approved student will typically expect to have 15 or fewer credits remaining after the Spring Semester. In no case will the student have more credits outstanding than can be completed in the following Fall semester. Permission to walk and not graduate will be granted by the Newcomb-Tulane College Dean or designee. Students seeking permission to walk but not graduate must apply by the Withdrawal Deadline in the Newcomb-Tulane College Spring Academic Calendar.
Updated by the Newcomb-Tulane College Faculty, April 10, 2025
Consortium Registration
Students enrolled in Newcomb-Tulane College during the fall or spring terms may register for courses at an approved Consortium School, provided that the same course has not been offered at Tulane University within the past year. Students must be registered for at least nine credits of coursework at Tulane in the semester of Consortium registration and may not use Consortium credits to satisfy core curriculum requirements or school-specific core requirements. Consortium registration is not applicable during the summer term. Additional restrictions may apply; interested students should contact their Newcomb-Tulane College academic advisor or visit the
Consortium Registration website
.
Course Loads
The normal academic course load for all students is 15 credits to 19 credits per semester. The student who completes 15 credits each semester can meet degree requirements in four years for most but not all degrees. The minimum course load is 12 academic credits per semester. Students must have registered for a minimum of 12 credits by the last day to add classes. An exception to this regulation is made for seniors who, in their final semester, need fewer than 12 credits to graduate.
In any given semester, when registration opens for the next semester, students may register for as many as 17 credits during the priority registration period and up to 19 credits thereafter.  After the close of a semester, students who have earned a cumulative grade-point average of 3.500 may register for as many as 22 credits.  Any student interested in an overload must submit that request to their academic advisor.
Full-time students with a course load of fewer than 14 credits should realize that they risk falling behind their class level.
Updated by the Newcomb-Tulane College Faculty, November 19, 2024
Course Repeatability
Courses Repeatable for Credit
Some Tulane University courses (e.g., special topics or variable-credit directed study courses) are explicitly designated as “repeatable for credit” in the University Catalog; they can be taken more than once for credit toward graduation. Depending on the course or the student’s academic program, there may be limits on the allowable number of repeats and/or total credits applicable to degree completion.
Courses Not Designated as “Repeatable for Credit”
Most Tulane University courses are not designated as “repeatable for credit.” The following policy applies to all such courses that are nonetheless repeated for any reason:
Repeated courses receive credit toward the degree only once. For example, a student who takes the same 3-credit course twice receives 3, not 6, credits toward the total required for completion of his/her degree program.
Courses deemed to be “equivalent” in the University Catalog (those courses whose content have been determined by the academic departments to be substantially similar), may earn credit towards degree only once, regardless of the subject prefix and/or course number.
It is the responsibility of the individual student to avoid duplication in whole or in part of the content of any course counting toward the degree. Such duplication may result in the withdrawal of credit. Student should always consult an advisor before registering to repeat a course.
Grades for Repeated Courses (Retake Courses)
Students may repeat courses in which they have earned a grade of D+ or lower. In order to repeat a course, the student must be enrolled in a full-time course load (a minimum of 12 new credit hours) in addition to the repeated course. No more than one course may be repeated in any semester. For each repeated course, only the second grade, whether higher or lower than the initial grade, will be used to calculate the student’s GPA. The initial grade will not count as credit hours attempted or earned, and therefore is not calculated in the GPA, but it will remain visible on the student’s transcript. The grade penalty for a WF is never removed from the GPA.
Students who are found responsible for academic misconduct are not eligible to have that original grade expunged.  In this case, both the initial grade and the second grade will be counted in their GPA.
Exceptions to Repeat Course Policy
Exceptions to the above policies may be authorized by the Deans of the College and Schools on an individual basis. Furthermore, the College and Schools are authorized to enact additional repeat policies considered to be more restrictive than the above University policy. Such additional policies must be published in the “Academic Policies” section of the University Catalog for the College or School.
Course Sequencing
Course at Tulane offerings increase in sophistication and specialty with increasing course number, and usually follow the following conventions:
Course Sequencing
Course number
Description
1000-level
Introductory-level undergraduate courses
2000-level and 3000-level
Intermediate-level undergraduate courses; may require  1000-level prerequisites.
4000-level
Advanced-level undergraduate courses; may require multiple level prerequisites.
5000-level
undergraduate courses: honors thesis courses, courses  taken abroad, or courses transcripted via our School of  Record relationship with the Council on International Educational Exchange (CIEE).
6000-level
Introductory-level graduate or advanced-level  undergraduate courses; often open to both undergraduate and  graduate students; sometimes cross-listed with 3000 or 4000-level courses.
7000-level
Intermediate-level graduate courses; not open to  undergraduates.
8000-level and 9000-level
Advanced graduate-level courses; often independent  graduate study or dissertation research.
Credit Expiration
No credit earned more than ten years previously may be applied to an undergraduate degree at Tulane. This ten-year window is measured from the date of a student’s most recent admission or readmission. Credits that meet this standard will not subsequently expire so long as the student remains continuously enrolled at Tulane.
Dean's List
Students who have earned a distinguished record in all of their subjects throughout the semester may be recognized on the Dean's List of Newcomb-Tulane College (NTC).
The Dean’s List is issued shortly following the end of the fall and spring semesters based on all final course grades and recognizes superior academic achievement. It includes all full-time, degree-seeking students in Newcomb-Tulane College who have a semester grade point average of 3.700 or better and who have earned no grade below a “C” during the same semester (excluding courses taken on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis). Students are notified via email of their inclusion on the Dean’s List.
Students with incomplete or missing grades will not be listed on the Dean's List until all of their grades have been submitted.
Updated by the Newcomb-Tulane College Faculty, November 19, 2024
Final Examination Scheduling
Tulane University administers final examinations according to a published schedule available on the registrar's website at the beginning of each semester. Students and instructors are responsible for familiarizing themselves with this schedule and adhering to it. Instructors determine the length and time of examination within the parameters established by the examination schedule.
Misreading or ignoring the schedule is not sufficient reason for a student's absence or tardiness to a final examination. Students are advised to check the schedule before making travel arrangements; such arrangements are not grounds for excusing a student from a final examination.
In the event of a serious, incapacitating medical problem or an immediate family member’s death, students may be granted an exception from the above scheduling requirement. Students who must be absent from the final examination for one of these reasons must file an
exception request
ideally before the scheduled examination but no later than 24 hours afterward. A student with an excused absence will receive a grade of I and schedule a make-up examination; a student with an unexcused absence will earn a grade of F in the course.
Final examinations or projects are required in all courses, except where the chair of the department or dean of the school waives this requirement.  The course instructor is in charge of each examination and is expected to see that it is proctored.  Take-home examinations may not be due before the date of the scheduled examination.  Students registered for evening courses will be expected to take their examination as scheduled, even if this necessitates taking three examinations in one day.
Any change in the schedule affecting an entire class must be approved by the Newcomb-Tulane College Dean’s Office, and notification must be given to every student registered for the course.  Course instructors must arrange for a room in which to give the rescheduled exam.  Students who cannot or who choose not to take the exam at the new time must be given the exam at the original time and date.  Exams that are rescheduled must be given during the nine-day examination period.
Grades/Grading
Students are responsible for monitoring their academic progress throughout their attendance. All official grades as well as temporary midterm grades are available on-line in the Gibson Portal.
Final grades are assigned in all subjects for all students and become a part of the student's permanent academic record. Final grades are based on the complete body of a student's work throughout the semester including the final examination.
Instructions for obtaining official transcripts are available from the Office of the Registrar (
link
). Transcripts may be withheld for unpaid financial accounts with the university.
Federal law prohibits the release of grades or other confidential information to third parties, including parents and guardians, unless the student provides Newcomb-Tulane College with written authorization for release of such information. Such a request may be made by the student at any time via a
FERPA release form
.
A student's progress toward graduation is measured not only by credits earned but also by the grade-point average. The grade-point average is determined by dividing the student's total number of quality points by the total number of quality hours. Graduation requires a 2.000 grade-point average, equivalent to an average grade of C, in all courses as well as in the major.
Grading Policy
Quality
Grade
Quality Points
Passing
A
4.000
A-
3.667
B+
3.333
B
3.000
B-
2.667
C+
2.333
C
2.000
C-
1.667
S
Satisfactory; not counted in  grade-point average but is counted in earned hours
D+
1.333
D
1.000
D-
0.667
failing
F
0.000
U
Unsatisfactory; not counted in grade-point  average and is not counted in earned hours
UW
Unofficial withdrawal; counts in grade-point average as a failing grade and earns no quality  points
WF
Withdrawn failing; counts in grade-point average as a failing grade and earns no quality  points
Other
I
Incomplete; not counted in grade-point  average
IP
In progress; not counted in grade-point  average
W
Withdrawn; not counted in grade-point average
AU
Audit, not counted in grade-point average, attempted or Earned Hours
Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory (S/U) Grading Option
Effective Fall 2025, a revised Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory (S/U) Grading Option was adopted. For students who started at Tulane in Fall 2025 and after, the policy is as follows:
Where individual schools permit, students in good academic standing may elect to take one course on a satisfactory/ unsatisfactory (S/U) basis per semester. They may count no more than ten credits from such courses toward degree requirements. The S/U option may not be employed for credit-bearing courses used to satisfy the
Core Curriculum
, or major or minor requirements. The last date for designating or revoking the S/U option is noted on the Academic Calendar. Schools may impose additional limitations on courses that can be taken S/U; please refer to the appropriate school section for more information.
A student electing this option earns academic credit for the course without affecting the grade-point average as long as the work is at the C- level or better. A grade of U is not counted in the grade-point average and carries no credit for the course. Students are cautioned that because a grade of S is not counted in the grade-point average, it will not count toward the Dean's List honors or towards the 2.000 grade-point average required for graduation.
Updated by the Newcomb-Tulane College Faculty, February 12, 2025
For students who started at Tulane prior to Fall 2025, the Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory (S/U) Grading Option policy is as follows:
Where individual schools permit, students in good standing may elect to take one course on a satisfactory/ unsatisfactory (S/U) basis per semester. They may count no more than ten credits from such courses toward degree requirements. The S/U option may not be used to satisfy the writing, foreign language, quantitative or formal reasoning, and laboratory components of the core curriculum, or major or minor requirements. The last date for designating or revoking the S/U option is the deadline for dropping courses. Schools may impose additional limitations on courses that can be taken S/U; please refer to the appropriate school section for more information.
A student electing this option gets academic credit for the course without affecting the grade-point average as long as the work is at the C- level or better. A grade of U is not counted in the grade-point average and carries no credit for the course. Students are cautioned that because a grade of S is not counted in the grade-point average, it will not count toward the Dean's List honors or towards the 2.000 grade-point average required for graduation.
In-Progress (IP) Grades
An in-progress grade, IP, is used to show progress during the first semester of a year-long honors or capstone course. When the final semester's grade for the course is awarded, the IP is changed to reflect that grade and grade points are awarded accordingly.
Incomplete (I) Grades
An incomplete grade, I, is given at the discretion of instructors when, in their view, special circumstances prevent a student from completing work assigned during the semester and with the understanding that the remaining work can be completed within 30 days. Incomplete grades also are given as described in the policy on
Final Examination Scheduling
. Incomplete grades must be resolved within 30 days of the end of the semester or they are changed to Fs. The I will remain on the student's transcript, accompanied by the final course grade only when the final grade earned in the course is an F.  Extensions of the 30-day deadline must be requested in writing by the student and must be approved by the instructor and an Assistant Dean in Academic Advising.  Students should contact their academic advisor with any questions.
Extensions are approved only when a student has made an attempt to complete the missing work within the original 30-day period but, in the view of the instructor and Newcomb-Tulane College, has been prevented from completing the work by some special circumstance beyond the student's control. Extensions must be approved before the 30-day deadline expires; extensions are not approved retroactively.
Withdrawn (W/WF/UW) Grades
Grades of WF are assigned by administrators and are computed in the grade-point average as if they were Fs.
In cases where students are suspended or expelled during the semester, W or WF grades may be assigned at the discretion of Newcomb-Tulane College. A grade of WF may be assigned for excessive absence from a course and may be assigned for disciplinary penalties in connection with an honor code or conduct code violation. A student who ceases to attend a class but has not withdrawn officially will receive a UW. After the last day to drop without record and before the last day to withdraw from a course with record, students who drop courses voluntarily will have W noted on their transcripts for each course dropped.
Grade Complaints and Grievance Procedure
Students who believe a grade to be incorrect should first consult with their instructor to address any discrepancies. If questions remain or the situation is unresolved, students seeking redress should follow the official
grade grievance procedure
.
Honors Thesis
The Honors Thesis is a valuable year-long experience for students who want to complete an independent research project, mentored by faculty in the student’s major. Students who complete the Honors Thesis graduate with Departmental Honors in the major or majors in which the thesis is written.
To be eligible to write an Honors
Thesis, students are generally expected to have an overall GPA of 3.4, and a GPA of 3.5 in the major for which the student is writing for honors. Departments may make exceptions to the GPA threshold on a case-by-case basis where warranted.
For more information about the Senior Honors Thesis, connect with the
Office of Undergraduate Research and Fellowships
.
At the request of the thesis writer or the thesis director, an
Honors
Thesis may be discontinued and the credits converted to an Independent Study at any time prior to graduation. In such cases, the Honors Thesis credits will be dropped without record and replaced by equivalent Independent Study credits with the same prefix. The student and the independent study supervisor must establish a written plan outlining the expectations for evaluating the newly created independent study.
Students may graduate with departmental honors by completing an Honors Thesis, Honors Case Study, or Senior Honors Project in the Fine Arts. For more information regarding the rules, process, and deadlines for these opportunities, please visit the
Senior Honors Thesis website
.
Updated by the Newcomb-Tulane College Faculty, February 12, 2025
Latin Honors
All Latin honors at Tulane are awarded on the basis of GPA alone. Students achieving a GPA in the top 25% of the class will receive Latin honors according to the following:
Summa cum laude = top 5% of the class
Magna cum laude = next 8% of the class
Cum laude = next 12% of the class
Thresholds are calculated once each year based on the GPAs of May graduates and are posted no later than July 1 for the upcoming year.
Leave of Absence
Students who voluntarily leave any school of the university and return to that school within one calendar year will be allowed to continue study under the degree requirements in effect for them at the time they left. Any student returning to the university after more than one calendar year will be required to complete the degree requirements in effect at the time of readmission. Students taking a leave of absence who wish to receive registration materials and to preregister for classes during the priority period may formally file for a leave of absence for up to one year. Students who are allowed a one-year leave of absence are not required to complete a readmission application; however, they should submit a letter-of-intent to resume study at least eight weeks prior to the semester in which they wish to return. Students who leave a school without formal approval for a leave of absence must file an application for readmission with an advisor and will not receive registration materials until after the readmission has been processed. The deadline for applying for a leave of absence is the last day to register or to add courses in the semester after the last regular semester of a student's enrollment. Students who do not return to Tulane University for a particular term and do not request a leave of absence by the deadline for doing so are not eligible to return without applying for readmission.
Before registering at other institutions, students must consult Newcomb-Tulane College's policy on
Transferring Credit to Tulane University
. Following such study elsewhere, students must submit a transcript from the other institution showing all courses attempted. Students must have satisfactorily completed their academic programs and must obtain statements of continued good standing from the other institution before being allowed to return. Students who take a leave for health reasons may be required to obtain clearance from the Student Health Center before they are allowed to resume study.
Study Abroad Policies
Overview
The Office of Study Abroad (OSA) maintains a portfolio of high-quality semester and yearlong study abroad programs that have been approved by the Newcomb-Tulane Study Abroad Committee. These programs are open to all qualified undergraduate students pursuing degrees in the Schools of Liberal Arts, Science & Engineering, Architecture, Public Health & Tropical Medicine, and Business.
Tulane University partners with top overseas universities and international institutions to make the highest quality overseas educational experiences available to its students. The range of subject matter reflects the particular opportunities and scholastic strengths available in each location. Language instruction is an integral part of the programs in non-English-speaking countries.
Approved Semester and Yearlong Options
The OSA administers over 148 study abroad programs for undergraduates in Europe, Latin America, Africa, Asia, and Australia. More details are available from the
Office of Study Abroad web site
.
These programs are open to all qualified students in the Newcomb-Tulane College who meet specific eligibility requirements.
Independent Scholar Option (ISO)
Students may choose to design their own study abroad experience for a semester or year abroad through the Independent Scholar Option. The ISO offers exceptional juniors and seniors the opportunity to propose a semester or year abroad pursuing a course of study for which there is no equivalent on an existing approved program. Students considering the ISO are required to have a meeting with a Study Abroad Advisor to discuss the proposed course of study abroad and the application process.
ISO applicants should demonstrate a high degree of maturity, independence, and preparation.
Credits and Grades
Unless specifically noted in the program description, grades earned abroad in approved Newcomb-Tulane College Study Abroad Programs in the Fall semester of 2015 and thereafter will appear on the official transcript but will not be calculated into the cumulative GPA. This policy will not apply to Tulane faculty-led summer programs, or to courses completed in study abroad programs offered through the Freeman School of Business.
Advising for Study Abroad
Newcomb-Tulane undergraduates are encouraged to begin their academic preparation for study abroad as early as their first semester at Tulane. Students may select a program independently or in close consultation with the OSA study abroad advisor, as well as the academic and major advisors. The OSA hosts informational meetings, advising sessions, discussion groups, and panel talks to inform students of their options for studying abroad. In addition, the OSA organizes an annual fall study abroad fair to promote education abroad opportunities. A complete guide to study abroad is available on the OSA web site.
Academic and Eligibility Requirements
Students must have a 2.5 minimum cumulative GPA at the time of application submission
in order to
study abroad.
There is no petition process if  the student's  GPA is lower than a 2.5.
Students studying abroad through the AB Freeman School of Business must
maintain a 2.5 or higher Freeman GPA
in order to
participate in a Freeman exchange program.
Additionally, specific programs have GPA requirements higher than a 2.5 and/or certain prerequisite courses for admission. Students should refer to the
"eligibility" and "Academics" sections as they are searching for study abroad programs to ensure they meet the requirements for their chosen program.
Students must also demonstrate the individual initiative and strong sense of personal responsibility required to complete the program abroad. Due to high demand, competition may occur within the various programs because some have a limited number of spaces.
The student's academic and major advisors must support the application and indicate that the proposed overseas study will advance and not impede progress toward the degree. Applicants are also asked to indicate how they expect to complete graduation requirements. Qualified students may study abroad as early as the freshman year.
Academic Integrity and Code of Student Conduct
Students are restricted from studying abroad while on Honor Board probation and/or
disciplinary probation
.
Tuition and Fees
For each semester abroad, participants pay Tulane tuition and the academic support service fee. Airfare, housing, meals, vacation travel, and personal expenses are extra and vary by location.
Financial Aid and Scholarships
For eligible students, all federal financial aid (Pell Grants, Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants, Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans, and Parent Plus Loans) except for work-study awards can be applied to all Tulane study abroad programs. All Tulane University institutional aid (Dean's Honor Scholarship, Distinguished Scholars Award, Founders Scholarship, and Tulane Need-Based Scholarship), except for the housing stipends, can be used for participation in Tulane study abroad programs as well. Students must meet with their financial aid advisor to confirm their financial aid status.
There are several scholarships available for study abroad depending on location. Student should visit the OSA web site for a complete list of awards available through the College as well as those available from partner institutions.
Tulane Summer Programs
Undergraduate students can take advantage of a variety of faculty-led summer study abroad programs focused on special topics.
Costs and application procedures vary by program; visit the
OSA web site
for a list of available summer programs.
Leave of Absence (LOA) Study Abroad
Students seeking transfer credit approval for a semester study abroad program must complete the Leave of Absence Semester Program petition available on the Office of Study Abroad website and should also consult with a study abroad advisor. This petition must be approved in order for students to transfer credit earned on a Leave of Absence Semester Program back to Tulane.
Tulane University will assess an academic support fee for students studying abroad in Fall or Spring through the “Leave of Absence Semester” option. This fee will be assessed at the beginning of the semester you are abroad. For more information, please visit the
OSA website
.
Non-Tulane Summer Programs
Students seeking transfer credit approval for a summer program may complete the Non-Tulane program application available on the OSA website and work to transfer credits back to Tulane with their academic advisor. No fee is charged during the summer non-Tulane process. For more information, please visit the
OSA website
.
Transferring Credit to Tulane University
College credit earned at another institution may be eligible to be included in a student's academic record and to count toward certain degree requirements at Tulane. Potential transfer credits must meet the eligibility criteria indicated below and then be evaluated and approved by Newcomb-Tulane College and the appropriate Department and/or School. Please note that some transfer credits may be denied due to professional accreditation standards or if they are if found to not be equivalent to Tulane University coursework.
Credit for approved coursework is transferred in the amount recorded on the official transcript of the other institution. Credits earned on a pass/fail or satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis cannot transfer unless the transcript states that "Pass" or "Satisfactory" is equivalent to a grade of C or better. Grades are not transferred with the credits; therefore, a student cannot remedy a grade-point deficiency at Tulane by attendance at another institution. Like credits earned at Tulane, transfer credits are subject to the
Credit Expiration
policy.
Transferring Credit Earned Prior to Matriculating at Tulane University.
Dual Enrollment
Tulane may award up to fifteen credits for dual enrollment high school courses (those courses appearing on both the high school transcript and the transcript of a college/university). In order to be evaluated for approval, dual enrollment courses must meet the same minimum criteria listed below for college/university enrollment.
College/University Enrollment
Incoming first-year students planning to enroll in courses elsewhere during the summer prior to arriving at Tulane must consult with their academic advisor regarding the approval process for such credits. In order to be evaluated for approval, a college course taken prior to matriculating at Tulane University must meet all of the following minimum criteria:
The course was offered by an institution accredited by one of the following institutional accrediting agencies:
Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC), Higher Learning Commission (HLC), Middle States Commission on Higher Education (MSCHE); New England Commission on Higher Education (NECHE), Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities (NWCCU), or the Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC);
The course was listed in the official catalog of the college or university from which the credit was earned;
A grade of C or better was earned in each course;
The course was composed primarily of degree-seeking college students;
The course was taught by college or university faculty.
Transfer credit approval requests for all dual enrollment and college courses taken prior to matriculating at Tulane University require all of the following:
A Transfer Credit Approval Form from Newcomb-Tulane College Advising;
An official transcript issued to Tulane University (not a grade report or transcript issued to the student);
Course descriptions from the college catalogs or brochures that correspond to the courses on the transcript;
A syllabus and/or other documentation that the academic department requires for review.
Transferring Credit Earned after Matriculation at Tulane University
Continuing students in good
academic standing
are eligible to apply for transfer credit but must obtain prior approval by having their proposed courses evaluated and approved by Newcomb-Tulane College and the appropriate Department and/or School. Previously enrolled students seeking readmission may request that any coursework completed during a leave of absence be evaluated for potential transfer credit. To be eligible for transfer credit from study-abroad programs during a leave of absence, students must have at least a 2.000 cumulative grade-point average at Tulane and attend a study abroad program/institution that generates a “WES transcript” through World Education Services or a School of Record transcript from a four-year institution.
In order to be evaluated for approval, a proposed course must meet all of the following minimum criteria:
The course is offered by an institution accredited by one of the following institutional accrediting agencies: Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC), Higher Learning Commission (HLC), Middle States Commission on Higher Education (MSCHE); New England Commission on Higher Education (NECHE), Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities (NWCCU), or the Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC);
The course is listed in the official catalog of the college or university offering the course;
The institution and program through which the courses were offered must be comparable to the department or program at Tulane awarding the transfer credit.
Some Schools, Departments, and Programs additionally require that students provide a syllabus for each proposed course.
In order to process transfer credit for any course with prior approval, Newcomb-Tulane College requires:
A grade of C or better in each course and
An official transcript issued to Tulane University (not a grade report or transcript issued to the student). Transcripts should be sent to the Academic Advising Center.
Transfer Credit and Academic Concentrations
No more than half of the credits required for each major may be transfer credits. Schools, Departments, and Programs may establish further policies governing the applicability of transfer credits to Majors, Minors, and/or Certificates.
Withdrawal
Voluntary
A student who has registered for a semester and plans to withdraw from the university must inform their academic advisor. After appropriate action has been completed with Academic Advising, confirmation of withdrawal will be sent to the student. The official date of the withdrawal must be approved by the Dean's designee and is usually the date of formal notification. The withdrawal date is important for determining possible refunds. Students who officially have withdrawn from the university cannot reside on campus.
Medical
A withdrawal from courses for medical reasons requires an official letter of recommendation from a physician in the Student Health Center and the approval of the NTC Dean or designee.  Students seeking a medical withdrawal must report to their academic advisor before going to the health service for an evaluation. Medical withdrawal letters issued by the Student Health Center should be delivered to the dean's office within 48 hours after they are issued. Grades of W are assigned when a student withdraws from one or more courses for medical reasons after the last day to drop without record.
A partial medical withdrawal (from some but not all courses) or incomplete grades in one or more courses may be permitted upon the recommendation of the Student Health Center. Students requesting a partial medical withdrawal must confer with their academic advisor, who will confer with the NTC Dean or designee, who makes the final decision on this matter. Withdrawals from individual courses for medical reasons after the published deadline for dropping a course will require supporting justification.  The deadline for medical withdrawals from all courses is the last day of classes each term. Requests for retroactive medical withdrawals normally are not approved.
The university may require a medical clearance before a student can continue studies in a semester that begins subsequent to administrative action (leave of absence, voluntary withdrawal, extension of I grades, course-load reduction) that has been taken on behalf of the student for medical reasons.
Involuntary
A student may be required to withdraw from any course or from the university, temporarily or permanently, for any of the following reasons: possibility of danger to the health of the student or to that of other students if enrollment is continued; refusal to obey regulations; violation of the Honor Code or other serious misconduct; failure to achieve good academic standing or academic irresponsibility as outlined in the policy on
Academic Standing
.
Refunds
The deadlines for refunds are listed in the
academic calendar
.
No refunds will be granted after the one-quarter refund deadline. The established deadlines are applicable under all conditions for withdrawal.
University fees, including the student activity fee, are refundable only through the last day to register or add classes
Catalog Addenda Note:
The S/U policy section was clarified on October 16, 2025 to include a reference to the policy for students who matriculated prior to Fall 2025.
Newcomb-Tulane College General Education Curriculum
The Newcomb-Tulane College Core Curriculum allows students to explore a wide-range of disciplines and embodies the mission and values of the College by allowing students to have flexibility in their core curriculum courses while exploring a full-range of courses.
The core curriculum—which is composed of a minimum of 30 credits—is divided into
three
parts:
proficiency
requirements
,
distribution of knowledge
requirements, and
additional
requirements
. To ensure that students experience the breadth of knowledge at the collegiate level, AP, IB, and Cambridge A-Level courses can be used to satisfy
proficiency
requirements only in Formal Reasoning and Foreign Language.
Courses will be designated as satisfying the distribution requirements according to the content and methodology rather than the departmental affiliation of the course.
The new core curriculum general education requirements went into effect with the entering class of 2018.
Courses proposed to satisfy core requirements will be ratified by the Newcomb-Tulane Curriculum Committee.
Proficiency Requirements
Writing Skills (2 courses and 6 credits)
Tier 1: Freshman writing (
ENGL 1010
Writing
or
ENGL 1011
Writing for Academic Purposes
)
unless the student is exempt
because of
their score on the A.P/I.B./Cambridge-A level exams.
Students receiving exemption from
ENGL 1010
Writing
/
ENGL 1011
Writing for Academic Purposes
are required to take an approved writing class during their freshman year.
Appr
oved course
s
will have at
least 1/
3
rd
of the grade based upon writing (excluding in class exams), but no revision
is
required
.
Tier 2:
One
additional
writing course at the 2000 level or above taken from an approved list.
Approved courses will have at
least 1/
3
rd
of the grade based upon writing (excluding in class exams), to include revision and re-evaluation by the instructor.
​
Students
are encouraged to take the Tier-1 writing course prior to taking the Tier-2 writing course; however, students are not prohibited from taking the Tier-1 and Tier-2 courses simultaneously.
Note: creative writing courses cannot be used to satisfy the writing proficiency requirement.
Formal Reasoning (1 course and 3 credits)
One course in mathematics or symbolic logic from an approved list.
Foreign Language (0-3 courses)
The foreign language proficiency requirement is achieved in any of the following ways:
A passing
grade in a course at the 2030 level
(3
rd
semester of Tulane 4-credit hour Foreign Language
or ASLS
coursework) or higher
in accordance with
assigned placement level
.
​
A passing
grade on a Tulane-administered proficiency
exam for students with assigned placements above the 2030 level. Students who do not successfully pass the proficiency exam will be automatically placed and must successfully complete a course at the 2030 level.
A passing
grade in a course at the level of placement above 2030
.
​
Advanced Placement score of 4 or 5
in a foreign language test as noted in the
AP/IB chart
Higher-Level IB score of 5 or higher
in a foreign language test as noted in the
AP/IB chart
Cambridge A-Level score
decided
by
the
appropriate language
department.
SAT II achievement test of 640 or higher
in a foreign language.
Note:
This requirement is waived for students in B.S.E. programs.
Distribution Requirements
(A course can satisfy only one of the distribution areas.)
Mathematics and the Natural Sciences (2 courses including 1 lab science course and 7 credits)
(Those completing the B.F.A. degree need only complete 1 course with lab)
Social and Behavioral Sciences (2 courses and 6 credits)
Textual and Historical Perspectives (2 courses and 6 credits)
Aesthetics and the Creative Arts (3 credits),
which can be fulfilled in 1-3 courses.
Additional Core Requirements
The First Year Seminar (1 course, 1-3 credits)
This requirement can be satisfied by a Tulane Interdisciplinary Seminar (TIDES) course or Colloquium course (
COLQ 1010
Freshmen Colloquium Seminar (1-3 c.h.)
or
COLQ 1020
Freshman Colloquium (1-3 c.h.)
)
Public Service (2 courses)
Students develop their commitment to civic engagement through the completion of service learning courses experiences. All students will complete their public service through service-learning courses, an approved public service internship, or an approved public service research experience. These courses can also be used to satisfy other areas of general education.
To meet this requirement for graduation, all students must complete two semesters of service. One of these semesters must be at the 2000 level or above. The first experience should be completed by the 2
nd
semester of the sophomore year.
Service Learning courses require a minimum of 20 hours of service per semester. Those service-learning courses designated as requiring a minimum of 40 hours of service carry one additional credit hour. No course may carry more than 4 credits.
Race and Inclusion (1 course, 3 credits)
One course
and 3 credits. Courses that fulfill this requirement will focus on the intersections of race with power, privilege, equity, justice, and/or inclusion and will focus at least 60% their content on these issues in the United States. These courses may also be used to satisfy
proficiency
or distribution core curriculum requirements.
Global Perspectives (1 course, 3 credits)
One course
and 3 credits. Courses that fulfill this requirement will focus at least 60% content with stated
objectives
to develop historical, cultural, and societal knowledge of an area beyond the United States. These courses may also be used to satisfy
proficiency
or distribution core curriculum requirements.
For more information please visit the
Core Curriculum website
.
Degrees, Programs, and Requirements
Degrees
Degree Requirements
Degree Audits
Credits Outside of Newcomb-Tulane College
Residency
ROTC Credits
Dual Degrees
Academic Programs
Academic Programs Outside of Newcomb-Tulane College
Major Component
Self-Designed Major
Double Majors
Minor Component
Undergraduate Certificates
Advanced Placement (AP)/International Baccalaureate (IB) Credits/Cambridge A-Levels
AP, IB, A-Level Equivalency Chart
CLEP
Advanced Standing and Exemption
Core Curriculum
English Placement Requirements for International Students
English for Academic and Professional Purposes
Requirements
Graduate Work
Provisional Graduate Credit
4+1 Programs
Joint-Degree Programs
Independent Studies
Internships for Academic Credit
Prelaw Program
Prelaw Early Acceptance Program
Premedical and Pre-Professional Health Programs
Creative Premedical Scholars Program
Tulane Pathways to Medicine
Degrees
Degrees offered in Newcomb-Tulane College expose students to a wide range of thought, fact, and human experience. Such a liberal education broadens students' knowledge and awareness of each of the major areas of human understanding into which the disciplines are divided and prepares students for a constructive role in society and for continued learning that contributes to a productive career and a rewarding personal life.
Bachelor of Architecture (B.Arch.)
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.)
Bachelor of Fine Arts (B.F.A.)
Bachelor of Science (B.S.)
Bachelor of Science in Architecture (B.S.A.)
Bachelor of Science in Engineering (B.S.E.)
Bachelor of Science in Management (B.S.M.)
Bachelor of Science in Public Health (B.S.P.H.)
The degree awarded to the student is dependent on the primary major program(s) completed. Candidates completing a primary major program in the humanities or the social sciences receive the B.A. degree; those completing a primary major program in the fine arts receive either the B.A. or the B.F.A. degree. The B.S. degree is awarded to candidates completing a primary major program in the sciences or architecture. Candidates completing primary major programs in anthropology, economics and linguistics receive either the B.A. or B.S. degree.
Degree Requirements
The credits presented for an undergraduate degree must satisfy the core curriculum, school specific core curriculum and major requirements described within the appropriate program of study. Each candidate for degree is required to have completed at least 120 credits of academic work and to have achieved a 2.000 cumulative grade-point average at the university and in the major. At least 60 of the 120 credits must be earned in courses above the 1000 level. Academic credit is awarded on the
credit-hour system
.
Students who have not completed the first-year writing core proficiency requirement by the end of the second semester of enrollment may not early register for the following semester and may not return to the College until this requirement has been fulfilled.
The College's foreign language requirement is proficiency at the third semester or 2030 level. All students must receive formal placement in any foreign language they plan to take while at Tulane.
These policies apply to all students, including those who contemplate leaving for any reason prior to graduation.
The recommended semester program consists of 15 credits to 19 credits. All degree candidates must have completed the last 30 credits of coursework in residence in the college and a minimum of 60 credits at Tulane University. Students who participate in a Tulane study abroad program or other Tulane-sponsored program in the senior year are earning Tulane grades and credits and, therefore, are considered to be meeting the senior residency requirement.
Subject to approval, students may count up to six credits of summer work from other institutionally accredited institutions, as part of their last 30 credits that must be completed in residence. Other school- or program-specific restrictions may apply. Students are encouraged to consult with their advisers.
Degree Audits
Degree audit reports are available to currently enrolled students through the Gibson portal on demand.  The degree audit matches the courses a student has taken against the College's and schools' general degree requirements as well as the major requirements and indicates which of the requirements are left to be taken. While advisors are available to discuss degree audits with students, it remains the student's responsibility to know and fulfill the exact requirements for the desired degree, major, minor, and/or certificate as stated in the University Catalog.
Credits outside of Newcomb-Tulane College
A maximum of nine credits from courses offered by schools that are not within Newcomb-Tulane College (in the Schools of Law, Medicine, Professional Advancement,  and  Social Work) may count toward graduation requirements. Individual schools within NTC may further restrict non-NTC coursework and students should refer to individual school sections of the Catalog for more information.
Newcomb-Tulane College students who choose to declare an approved major or minor that includes coursework from any of the above-mentioned, non-NTC schools are permitted to use all of the coursework from that approved program toward their undergraduate degree. Newcomb-Tulane College students may pursue up to one non-NTC major and one non-NTC minor. Should students abandon the above-mentioned major or minor before completion, students will only be permitted to apply a maximum of nine credits of coursework toward graduation requirements. Students pursuing a non-NTC major and a major in NTC must declare the NTC major as their primary major except in the cases of coordinate majors.
Updated by the Newcomb-Tulane College Faculty, February 12, 2025
Residency
All degree candidates must have completed a minimum of 60 credits at Tulane University (excluding Tulane study abroad and Washington Semester programs).
Students must complete the last 30 credits of coursework in residence in the College. Students who participate in a Tulane study abroad program or in the Washington Semester program in the senior year are considered to be meeting the senior residency requirement but these credits will not apply toward the 60 credit university residency requirement. Students participating in dual degree physics and engineering programs (Tulane and approved partner universities) are exempted from the senior residency requirement but not the Tulane residency requirement.
At least half of the credits required for each major must be completed at Tulane University.
ROTC Credits
A maximum of 15 credits from ROTC courses (AERO, MILS, NAVS) may be applied to a Tulane degree.
Dual Degrees
Tulane University offers the option of obtaining two undergraduate degrees. Newcomb-Tulane College students should refer to the school-specific sections for more information on pursuing dual degrees within the same school and consult with their advisors early in their academic careers.
To qualify for two baccalaureate degrees (dual degree) from any of the schools, a student must complete a minimum of 150 credits (75 credits completed at Tulane University) at least 82 of which must be above the 1000-level and satisfy all requirements for each degree and each major. A candidate also must file a degree application for each degree at least two semesters prior to the anticipated date of graduation.
Academic Programs
Newcomb-Tulane College students may pursue academic programs across the undergraduate division.
Majors approved for NTC Students
Minors
approved for NTC Students
Certificates approved for NTC Students
Academic Programs Outside of Newcomb-Tulane College
The following majors and minors, housed in schools outside of Newcomb-Tulane College (NTC), are available to Newcomb-Tulane College students as full programs. NTC students pursuing the majors listed below as their primary majors must complete the degree and core requirements of Newcomb-Tulane College. NTC Students pursuing a Bachelor of Science in Exercise Science must additionally complete
MATH 1210
Calculus I (4 c.h.)
or equivalent plus
MATH 1230
Statistics For Scientists (4 c.h.)
and NTC students pursuing a Bachelor of Science in Information Technology must additionally complete the B.S. mathematics requirement which includes
MATH 1210
Calculus I (4 c.h.)
or equivalent plus one additional mathematics course above Calculus I. Individual school restrictions within NTC may limit their students from pursuing these majors or using the credits from these majors toward their degree programs. Students should refer to the individual school sections for more information.
Newcomb-Tulane College students who choose to declare a non-NTC major or minor that includes approved coursework from outside NTC are permitted to use all of the coursework from that approved program toward their undergraduate degree. Newcomb-Tulane College students may pursue up to one major and one minor in SOPA. Should students abandon the above-mentioned major or minor before completion, students will only be permitted to apply a maximum of nine credits of coursework toward graduation requirements. Students pursuing a non-NTC major and a major in NTC must declare the NTC major as their primary major except in the cases of coordinate majors.
Majors Outside of Newcomb-Tulane College available to NTC Students
Exercise Science, B.S.
Health and Wellness, B.A.
Homeland Security, B.A.
Information Technology, B.S.
Secondary Education (Grades 6-12) Coordinate Major
Social Policy and Practice Coordinate Major
Minors Outside of Newcomb-Tulane College available to NTC Students
Exercise Science Minor
Health and Wellness Minor
Homeland Security Studies Minor
Information Technology Minor
Social Work Minor
Teaching English Learners Minor
Teaching, Learning, and Training Minor
Major Component
A major field of study provides each student the opportunity to explore a single area of inquiry in depth and to gain the self-confidence derived from mastery of a subject. The major must be selected no later than the beginning of a student's fourth semester of college study. The selection of a major program also determines the school with which the student will be affiliated. Students may change their majors at any point in their academic careers; students choosing to change their majors should be aware that:
this action may necessitate a change in school,
not all previously completed coursework may apply to the newly selected school or major, and
additional coursework may be necessary to meet the new major requirements
Students who elect to complete more than one major must complete all courses for each major. Students declaring a second major must officially declare their second major and return the declaration form to the advising office for approval. At least half of the coursework required for each major must be completed at Tulane University. Newcomb-Tulane College students should be aware that obtaining a second major in professional degree programs requires obtaining the professional degree, i.e. B.S.E., B.S.M., B.S.P.H., B.Arch. Professional degree programs must serve as a primary major. Newcomb-Tulane College students are permitted to pursue the following majors within the School of Professional Advancement: Exercise Science, Health & Wellness, Homeland Security, Information Technology, and the Secondary Education Coordinate Major.
Self-Designed Majors
A student with a 3.50 GPA may construct a unique self-designed coordinate major program of study by grouping courses from different academic departments and programs primarily in Liberal Arts. While interdisciplinary in nature, a self-designed major should be focused in the School of Liberal Arts. Self-designed major proposals require a petition to the Committee on Undergraduate Academic Requirements, which may grant approval after a review of the proposal, rationale, and proposed list of courses. Detailed instructions for preparing the proposal can be found
here
.
Double Majors
Newcomb-Tulane College students must have a primary major in the Schools of Architecture and Built Environment, Business, Liberal Arts, Public Health and Tropical Medicine, or Science and Engineering except for students pursuing a primary major in one of the approved School of Professional Advancement programs for Newcomb-Tulane College students . Any student may also pursue a second major. If the second major is not housed in the primary school, the student does not have to complete the school-specific requirements of the secondary school. Subject to approval by their advisors, students may also pursue a second major in a professional degree program; however, this option requires completing all degree requirements for the second major and obtaining the professional degree, i.e., B.S.E., B.S.M., B.S.P.H, M.Arch. (See Dual Degrees.)
Full-time students may pursue second majors or minors in the School of Professional Advancement not listed above only as a voluntary overload when permitted by the program. The second majors available are Public Relations, General Legal Studies, Digital Design, Humanities, and Social Science; the second minors available are Health and Wellness and Homeland Security.
Minor Component
Undergraduate students may complete one or more minors. The minor is optional and is designed to provide structure to the study of a secondary field of interest chosen by the student. Students who elect to complete the requirements for a minor must earn a grade-point average of at least 2.000 in courses counting toward that minor. No courses counting toward the student's first minor will count toward the student's second minor. Individual schools or departments may specify the number of credits allowed for major-minor overlap and how many minors are permitted in the degree. Students should consult departmental listings for additional information. Newcomb-Tulane College students are permitted to pursue the following School of Professional Advancement minors: Exercise Science, Information Technology, and the minor in Teaching, Learning, and Training.
Undergraduate Certificates
Students may complete an undergraduate certificate concurrently with their degree. The certificate is optional and must be selected and officially declared no later than the beginning of a student’s final year of study and prior to applying for graduation. Students may not count the same course(s) toward a minor and a certificate. Additional restrictions on overlap between a certificate and majors are governed by the academic programs in the schools. Students should consult with their advisors for more information.
Advanced Placement (AP)/ International Baccalaureate (IB) Credits/Cambridge A-Levels
Advanced placement or college credit is awarded to students who receive the required scores on AP, IB, and Cambridge A-Level exams as established by Tulane University academic departments. It is the student's responsibility to ensure that an official report of the test scores is sent to Tulane University.
When planning their fall schedules, first-year students should not enroll in courses for which AP, IB, or Cambridge A-Level credit is expected. AP, IB, or Cambridge A-Level credit does NOT count toward the minimum or maximum course load or toward the minimum number of earned credits required to remain in academic good standing. No more than four credits of English and no more than four credits of a single modern foreign language will be awarded to any student, even if the student has high scores on the language and literature tests.
Tulane University also awards credit for scores of 5 or better on higher-level International Baccalaureate exams. For more information about IB credit, please contact an academic advisor.
Beginning in Fall 2020, Tulane University will accept Cambridge A-Level for advanced standing, placement, and elective credit.
AP, IB, A-Level Equivalency Chart
An equivalency chart listing AP/IB/A-level credit and placement for individual subject areas can be found
here
.
Questions regarding advanced placement credit should be directed to Newcomb-Tulane College Academic Advising.
CLEP
Full-time undergraduate students enrolled in Newcomb-Tulane College may not earn credit toward a degree through the College Level Examination Program (CLEP).
Advanced Standing and Exemption
Although the university awards placement or credit to students who have earned sufficiently high scores on AP, IB, and Cambridge A-Level exams, students not in these programs also may have special expertise in a foreign language. Students, who prove proficient in a foreign language through a sufficiently high score on the College Board Achievement Test or on a departmentally administered proficiency exam, are exempted from the proficiency portion of the foreign language requirement only, with no credit awarded; all students must take at least one foreign language course in that language at Tulane University. Exemption may be given in other departments on an individual basis.
Core Curriculum
The
Newcomb-Tulane College Core Curriculum
- which is composed of a minimum of 30 credits- is divided into two parts: proficiency requirements and a distribution of knowledge. To ensure that students experience the breadth of knowledge at the collegiate level, AP, IB, and Cambridge A-Level course credit can be used to satisfy proficiency requirements only in Formal Reasoning and Foreign Language. Courses are designed as satisfying the distribution requirements according to the content and methodology rather than the departmental affiliation of the course.
English Placement Requirements for International Students
English for Academic and Professional Purposes
In the first year, Newcomb-Tulane College students should complete one of the following courses:
ENGL 1010
Writing (4 c.h.)
or
ENGL 1011
Writing for Academic Purposes (4 c.h.)
. If an AP score of 4 or 5 on the English Advanced Placement (AP) examination or a 6 or higher on the English International Baccalaureate (IB) examination is earned, the student will earn credit for ENGL 1010. Students who earn AP or IB credit for ENGL 1010, should enroll in a Tier-1 Writing Course in the first year.
The typical pattern for international students is to take the online placement program in the summer,
EAPP 1000
Composition and Reading (3 c.h.)
and
EAPP 1050
Multicultural Speech (3 c.h.)
in the Fall, and
ENGL 1011
Writing for Academic Purposes (4 c.h.)
in the Spring. However, excellent performance in the placement program can waive some of those courses at the discretion of the English for Academic and Professional Purposes Program. Completing this series allows students to meet two core requirements while satisfying their Tier-1 Writing Course.
International students are required to participate in an online placement program, “American Academic English” in the summer before arrival. The online program can be completed from home and requires participants to spend approximately two hours to complete the writing requirements. The program is designed to place international students into the writing, public speaking, and English classes, which will give them the best chance of success at Tulane while also giving them an advanced support system.
Requirements
International students are required to participate in an online placement program, “American Academic English” in the summer before arrival. The online program can be completed from home and requires participants to spend approximately four hours to complete the writing requirements. The program is designed to place international students into the writing, public speaking, and English classes, which will give them the best chance of success at Tulane while also giving them an advanced support system.
International students take Composition and Reading in a Global Context (
EAPP 1000
Composition and Reading (3 c.h.)
) and Multicultural Speech (
EAPP 1050
Multicultural Speech (3 c.h.)
) their first semester to maximize their academic success. EAPP 1000 fulfills the Global Discourse core requirement, and EAPP 1050 fulfills the Race and Inclusion core requirement.  Writing (ENGL 1010) and Writing for Academic Purposes (ENGL 1011) fulfill the Tier-1 Writing Requirement, and students are placed into one based on which is predicted to benefit them most. Most take ENGL 1011 in the Spring. ENGL 1011, “Writing for Academic Purposes,” is focused on the unique skills and particular needs shared by many international students. Any international student who brings in Advanced Placement or International Baccalaureate credit for ENGL 1010 must take a Tier-1 Writing Course.
Students in the Tulane Advantage program must take EAPP 1000 and 1050 in the Fall, followed by ENGL 1011 in the Spring.  Students can contact the English for Academic and Professional Purposes program for more information at
LangEx@tulane.edu
.
Course List
Course ID
Title
Credits
Tulane Advantage
EAPP 1000
Composition and Reading
3
EAPP 1050
Multicultural Speech
3
ENGL 1011
Writing for Academic Purposes
4
General Requirements
EAPP 1000
Composition and Reading
1
3
EAPP 1050
Multicultural Speech
3
1
This requirement may be fulfilled over the summer.
Graduate Work
Students in Newcomb-Tulane College with a grade-point average of at least 3.33 in their major program may register, normally in their senior year, for up to six credits of graduate-level courses, for credit toward a baccalaureate degree. Approvals from the course instructor, department chair, and Academic Advising Center Dean or Advisor are required.
Provisional Graduate Credit
A senior who completes all baccalaureate requirements before the end of the senior year and intends to enter a Tulane University graduate program may apply for provisional graduate credit in up to, but not more than, 12 credits of graduate 6000- and 7000- level courses. These courses must be approved by the applicable department beyond the credits needed for the baccalaureate. Graduate credit for such work, if passed with a grade of B or better, will be awarded when the student is admitted to full graduate status in the applicable school, upon recommendation of the department chair and approval of the dean. These provisions do not apply to transfer of credits to or from other graduate institutions.
4+1 Programs
Tulane University has developed "4+1" programs in which students can obtain a master's degree within one year of completing the bachelor's degree. Students who pursue this option take courses in the fifth year at a substantially reduced tuition rate.
A.B. Freeman School of Business
Business Analytics, MAN
Master of Management in Energy, MME
Finance, MFN
School of Liberal Arts
Anthropology, MA
Art History, MA
Computational Linguistics, MA
English, MA
French/Francophone Studies, MA
History, MA
Linguistics, MA
Philosophy, MA
Policy Economics, MA
Political Economy with Data Analytics, MA
Spanish and Portuguese, MA
Spanish, MA
School of Science and Engineering
Applied Mathematics, MS
Behavioral Health, MS
Biomedical Engineering, MS
Cell and Molecular Biology, MS
Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, MS
Computational Science, MS
Computer Science, MS
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, MS
Materials Science and Engineering, MS
Mathematics, MS
Neuroscience, MS
Physics, MS
Psychology, MS
Statistics, MS
Interested students should contact their academic advisors and the 4+1 Program for more information.
Joint-Degree Programs
Tulane University offers joint-degree programs (undergraduate and graduate) in Business, Law, and Public Health & Tropical Medicine. The undergraduate schools allow qualified students who have completed three years of undergraduate work to begin graduate studies in one of the professional programs. A student who completes the junior year in residence in any of the schools (not on a Tulane year-long study abroad program) and then begins study in one of these professional programs may receive a bachelor's degree from the respective school after satisfactorily completing one year of full-time professional study.
To enter one of these programs, students are required to be accepted by the professional program and to obtain approval from the Newcomb-Tulane College dean by the end of the sixth semester of study. Joint-degree candidates are required to complete 90 credits in Newcomb-Tulane College during three years of study before starting work in the professional program. Credits earned in divisions outside Newcomb-Tulane College (in Schools of Law, Medicine, Social Work or School of Professional Advancement) may not be applied to the 90 credits. Candidates must meet all core curriculum and major requirements for the bachelor's degree in the undergraduate school. Students in joint-degree programs must complete 120 credits by the close of their fourth year of study in order to receive a degree from the undergraduate school. Students who fail to do so will be required to attend Tulane Summer School to make up their credit deficiency before beginning their second year in the professional school. Transfer students must complete two years of undergraduate work at Tulane to be eligible for a joint-degree program.
All students must file an application for degree at least two semesters prior to the anticipated date of graduation. Every course taken during the first year in the professional program must be passed, and the student's performance in the first year's work in the professional program must be of sufficient quality for advancement to the second year. A student who fails to meet this requirement may become a candidate for a degree in the undergraduate school after satisfactorily completing an additional year of study in the undergraduate school. If a student in a joint-degree program is a candidate for honors, the grade-point average used to determine the eligibility includes the applicable work done in the professional program.
Independent Studies
Many departments and programs offer to a limited number of students with superior scholastic standing creative opportunities for independent study normally under the direction of full-time faculty members. The work may take the form of directed readings, laboratory or library research, or original composition. Instead of traditional class attendance, the student substitutes conferences, as needed, with the director. An independent study is a stand-alone course that may not be added to another course and may not replicate existing courses.
Internships for Academic Credit
Consult the individual schools' sections of this catalog for information on internships for academic credit within a major or degree program and for policies regarding limitations on internship credit.
A one-credit internship,
INTR 1990
Liberal Arts Internship (1 c.h.)
, is available to students in the College who are seeking opportunities with organizations that require interns to receive credit for their experience. INTR 1990 credit applies toward the degree but does not apply to any specific degree requirements. This course is offered only on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis and counts within the credit limit for S/U courses. It may be taken more than once but will count as credit toward the degree only once. Before registering, students must apply for this internship course with the Newcomb-Tulane College Dean's office.
Co-Operative Education
A co-operative education program is offered for seniors in Chemical Engineering. Consult the School of Science and Engineering for details.
Prelaw Program
There is no standard prelaw curriculum that must be followed to qualify for admission into law school. A well-rounded education is the best preparation for the study of law, because such an education ensures exposure to a wide variety of ideas and leads to an understanding of the various social, political, economic, and cultural forces that have shaped laws and the societies they govern. Students should develop analytical reasoning and communication skills. Proficiency in writing is essential. Students considering law school are encouraged to begin consulting with the prelaw adviser early in their undergraduate career.
Prelaw Early Acceptance Program
Particularly well-motivated and well-qualified juniors may apply to the Tulane University Law School through the Prelaw Early Acceptance Program. Prelaw Early Acceptance Program candidates complete all requirements of the normal baccalaureate program, but are guaranteed admission to the Law School upon graduation. Students are expected to follow an academically rigorous program while maintaining a high level of academic performance throughout their college careers. Only students who complete all four years of college at Tulane (with the exception of the Tulane study abroad program) are eligible. (This program should not be confused with the 3+3 program, in which Tulane students are accepted to the Law School during the junior year and permitted to enroll at the Law School during what would otherwise be the student's senior year, receiving the baccalaureate degree after the first year of law school and the law degree after two additional years of law school.)
To be considered for the program, students must provide a Tulane transcript showing normal progress (at least 30 credits per year) for at least five regular, full-time semesters of Tulane coursework, and evidence of in-depth study in at least one area. Students must present a cumulative grade-point average of at least 3.400 and a score on the Law School Admission Test (LSAT) of at least 161. Applications should be submitted between October 1 of the junior year and February 1 of the senior year. The LSAT may be taken anytime between June after the sophomore year and December of the senior year. The earliest point at which the Law School will offer admission occurs after the fall semester of the junior year.
Premedical and Pre-Professional Health Programs
While undergraduate students are completing the regular baccalaureate curriculum of their choice, they may work concurrently to complete the courses required to enter programs in the health professions, including dentistry, medicine, optometry, osteopathy, podiatry, and veterinary medicine. Preparation for such programs normally includes two semesters each of biology (with laboratory), general chemistry (with laboratory), organic chemistry (with laboratory), and physics (with laboratory). Many schools have additional entrance requirements including mathematics and upper-level science courses. Due to the variations in course requirements imposed by these professions, students should request specific information from schools in their fields of interest or from the health professions adviser.
Students interested in one of these professions may pursue a baccalaureate degree in any discipline. In the first three years, however, they should plan a course of study to meet the basic requirements of the professional school. Students considering a career in medically related fields should begin consulting the health professions adviser early in their undergraduate career to discuss available options in their choice of and preparation for a future profession.
Creative Premedical Scholars Program
The Creative Premedical Scholars Program seeks students who want to major in the liberal arts at Tulane and pursue a career in medicine after graduation. Successful applicants receive guaranteed admission to Tulane's School of Medicine and are not required to take the MCAT. Relieved of the pressures that often accompany preparation for the MCAT and applying to medical school, Creative Premedical Scholars are free to invest in a course of study within the humanities, arts, and social sciences
To be eligible for consideration, applicants must have a 3.6 GPA, complete a minimum of 60 credits of undergraduate coursework, and earn a B- or higher in all of the premedical science course requirements by the end of their sophomore year. The requirements are: one year each of general biology, general chemistry, organic chemistry, and physics, all with laboratories.
Courses may be taken during the summer at Tulane or at another institution that has been approved by the respective departments for transfer credit. Students accepted into the program are expected to earn a BA or BFA degree in the School of Liberal Arts. Majors in the Business School, School of Science and Engineering, School of Continuing Studies, or School of Public Health are not acceptable, though a student may pursue any minor. Students who have completed more than two years of undergraduate work or have transferred to Tulane from another university are not eligible.
Applications are due in early April of the sophomore year. Applications will be reviewed by the Creative Scholars Nominating Committee and top-ranked students will be invited to interview with the committee at the end of April. The Committee will notify applicants regarding their decision by mid-June. Creative Medical Scholars are expected to carry at least 15 credits per semester. They must also write an Honors thesis (Scholars not in the Honors program will write a thesis in their major department).
For further information please contact a Pre-Health Advisor.
https://advising.tulane.edu/planning/pre-health
Tulane Pathways to Medicine
The Tulane Pathways to Medicine (TPM) is a 4+4 program that provides students, upon matriculation to Tulane University as undergrad students, admissions to Tulane University School of Medicine (TUSOM). This program is best suited for high-achieving students who are committed to pursuing a degree in medicine at Tulane after they complete their four years of undergraduate education.
TPM is an invitation-only program. Select high-achieving students will be invited to apply for TPM after they apply for undergraduate admission. Students selected to apply typically have an ACT score of 35+ and a high school GPA of 3.8+. The Office of Undergraduate Admissions will invite candidates to interview on campus during Honors Weekend. Soon after the interview process, the applicants will be notified if they are accepted in the program.
Matriculation into TUSOM is contingent upon successful completion of the undergraduate curriculum requirements. Students in the TPM program are not required to major in a particular major but will be required to maintain a 3.5 overall GPA as well as a 3.5 in their core science classes. Students will also be required to take the MCAT exam prior to entering medical school but scores will not be used for admissions purposes.
Students’ undergraduate education in the TPM program will be partially financed by the merit scholarship they receive as honor students, along with any additional financial aid they may receive. There will be no guaranteed financial assistance for their medical education, but all accepted students will be eligible and considered for merit-based financial assistance upon entering TUSOM.
For more information about the TPM program, please contact Henry Marrion at
hmarrion@tulane.edu
.
As the home of the undergraduate experience at Tulane, Newcomb-Tulane College
supports collaborations across disciplines and equips students for intellectual exploration and growth in innovative academic opportunities.
The College provides oversight for academic programs involving two or more Schools, Institutes, or Centers on campus.
NTC Interdisciplinary Academic Programs
Climate Change: Science and Practices Minor
On This Page
Career Development (CRDV)
First-Year Seminar Courses (TIDE, TIDR, COLQ)
Data Hub (DATA)
English for Academic and Professional Purposes (EAPP)
Interdisciplinary Newcomb-Tulane College Courses (INTU)
ROTC Courses (Air Force- AERO, Military Science- MILS, Navy Science- NAVS)
Career Development (CRDV)
CRDV 1060
Exploring Majors and Careers
(1)
Students will engage in self-assessment and exploration surrounding their major and career goals to concretely identify avenues to achieve career-related goals such as major declaration, securing internships, and exploring different career paths.
The course may only be taken once for credit.
CRDV 1070
Preparing for Jobs, Internships, and Graduate School
(1)
Students will learn the importance of developing their personal brand, establishing a
professional network, and applying current career knowledge to achieve career-related goals such as applying for graduate school, securing a job after graduation, and preparing for a successful post-graduation transition.
CRDV 1090
Majors, Internships & Jobs
(1)
Using four phases of career development, students will explore the importance of developing a professional identity and concretely identify avenues to achieve career related goals such as major declaration, securing internships, and preparing for a successful transition from college post-graduation. Course may be repeated 2 times for credit.
Course Limit:
2
First-Year Seminar Courses (TIDE, TIDR, COLQ)
TIDE 1000
NOLA Cities of The Dead
(1)
Students will be introduced to the history and cultural folkways of New Orleans through the study of historic figures, cemetery architecture, monument construction and funerary symbolism reflected in stone and iron.  Why are above-ground tombs more prevalent in New Orleans?  What are the different tomb types and their architectural styles?  Why do families in Louisiana visit cemeteries on All Saints Day?  What symbolism does funerary art in stone and iron reveal?  This TIDES course will provide several informative field sessions to local cemeteries combined with class lectures.
TIDE 1003
Happiness & Human Flourishing
(1)
What can scientific research tell us about practices and perspectives that lead to a happier life? What can psychology do to help ordinary people to thrive and flourish?  Which practices lead to greater fulfillment and life satisfaction?  Positive psychology engages such questions by utilizing scientific research methods to identify practices which lead to greater happiness and human flourishing -- a life rich in purpose, relationships, and enjoyment. Positive psychologists maintain that (1) flourishing requires more than curing pathology; (2) flourishing requires tapping human strengths and positive capacities; and (3) scientific research methods can help us to identify and refine strategies for flourishing.  This course will provide a theoretical and practical introduction to applied positive psychology.   

Topics will include positive emotions, hedonic misprediction and adaptation, character strengths (and their application in academia), purpose, gratitude, kindness, meditation, nurturing social relationships, and more.  Students will learn about the foundational theories and research of positive psychology and will also engage in experiential homework in which they will apply strategies for enhancing their own health and happiness and for positively impacting their relationships and communities.  This course will also expose students to local wellness resources at Tulane and New Orleans and will offer opportunities to explore a variety of life enhancing practices through homework assignments and a few group activities such as attending a yoga class (exercise), a meditation class (mindfulness), and a field trip to the French Quarter exploring New Orleans architecture and history on a walking tour (engagement) and enjoying some local cuisine (savoring).
TIDE 1005
Mardi Gras: Greatest Free Show
(1)
TIDE 1010
Ldrshp, Pol, Powr,Change
(1)
Are leaders born or bred? How do leaders and their leadership styles impact change? How does one develop the courage and wisdom to lead and promote change effectively? This TIDES class provides an opportunity to examine the nature of leadership, its impact on the change process, and the underlying dynamics of power, politics, and conflict.  Over the course of the academic year, this course focuses on developing an interdisciplinary understanding of the theories and practices of organizational and community leadership. As a TIDES member, you will actively study the theories that emerge from a variety of fields and reflect on their practical, political, and ethical assumptions as well as on their implications in a variety of settings. Through readings, classroom discussions, interviews with local leaders, and a group initiative, you will gain a greater appreciation for the issues that affect leaders and the components of successful leadership.
TIDE 1011
Exploring Russia
(1)
The war with Ukraine has brought Russia’s relationship with its former imperial realm (as well as its own internal minorities) into sharp focus, prompting the scholarly community to examine our prior biases and prejudices. Russia’s aggression has intensified calls for a decolonization of our thinking, writing, and teaching about the former Soviet space. Scholars of Ukraine, the Baltics, the Caucasus, and Central Asia, among many others, have called to reappraise prior historiography’s Russo-centrism and the often-neglected implications of Soviet nationality policies; the lingering Russian/Soviet imperial legacy.  This course will introduce students to the multiplicity of perspectives and experiences of the ex-Soviet nationalities and Russia’s ethnic minority groups. A variety of readings, film screenings, musical videos, and guest lectures will be part of the class. No knowledge of Russian is needed or required.
TIDE 1013
The Architecture of Place
(1)
How can architecture define a place?  How do buildings support social constructs and cultural patterns?  How do spatial relationships, proportions, and forms shape how we move through and experience places?  How do the lines, curves, textures, and colors of walls, roofs, railings and other built elements impact our senses, emotions, and memories?  All of these questions will be explored as students learn about the particular built environment that makes New Orleans so unmistakably New Orleans.  Students will be encouraged to think critically about built environment and to communicate their ideas effectively through writing, visuals, and speech.
TIDE 1014
Cultivate Resiliency Self Care
(1)
Health in college is so much more than avoiding pizza every night and occasionally going to the gym. Health is multifaceted and is pivotal to your ability to thrive during the next four years. This course will examine the most relevant health topics for college students from a public health perspective, integrating theories and practices relevant to your life. In addition, this course seeks to cultivate leadership skills as an element of being healthy and successful in college.
TIDE 1015
Cultivate Inner Changemaker
(1)
Cultivate your Inner Changemaker is devoted to exploring the skills, strategies, and ideas of effective social change advocates in the 21st century. Students will be learning about some of the essential skills of effective changemakers, including leadership, optimism, resilience, risk-taking, luck, relationship building, conflict resolution, creativity, and innovation. Throughout the course, students will practice these skills, both in class and through assignments.
TIDE 1016
Tolkien as Translator
(1)
While many have enjoyed J.R.R. Tolkien’s The Lord of the Rings as an epic novel, few readers are aware of the fundamentally linguistic and anthropological nature of Tolkien’s writing. As Oxford Professor of Anglo-Saxon, Tolkien was intimately familiar with the Germanic languages, their history, and their epic literatures. Because of his background, he went far beyond the invention of a few strange-sounding names for the characters and places of his world, instead developing a detailed proto-language (Common Eldarin) and following its development into two distinct but related Elvish tongues, Quenya and Sindarin. He also invented Khuzdul (Dwarvish), the Black Speech, Adûnaic (Númenórean) and Sôval Phârë (The Common Speech). Importantly, he assumed a role of translator of The Lord of the Rings, employing English archaisms and dialects to reflect the varying speech styles of his characters, their relative social status, and their complex interrelationships. Old English, Old Norse, and Gothic were all employed to accurately reflect the degree of kinship characters, places and languages had to the ‘Common Speech’.

In this course, we study the role of language in The Lord of the Rings, applying concepts and perspectives from linguistic anthropology to shed light on Tolkien’s methods and purpose as the ‘translator’ of Middle-earth. Students are introduced to Tolkien's invented languages (and their real-world inspirations) and two of his invented alphabets. An appreciation of the linguistic foundations of Middle-earth greatly increases one's understanding of Tolkien’s achievement, and provides insights into one linguist’s view of the intricate and interdependent relationships of language, culture, and society.
TIDE 1017
Changemakers in NOLA Education
(1)
This one-credit course is designed for those interested in social innovation and social entrepreneurship. In addition to exploring design thinking, social and emotional learning, and health and wellness, students will explore the innovative initiatives currently shaping the landscape of education in New Orleans.
TIDE 1018
Case Studies in Leadership
(1)
This 1-credit course will utilize a variety of cases which highlight a real-life example of a challenge in leadership. Fields covered will include business, politics, non-profit work, and social movements - all highlighting decision making in New Orleans following Hurricane Katrina. In most class periods, you will be asked to “inhabit” the case and take up the dilemma of its protagonist. I may assign class members roles to prepare and play in the class discussion spontaneously or in advance. None of the cases have right answers, although we may have an epilogue that tells what actually happened (the historical outcome). You are asked to wrestle with the problem as if it were your own and bring your experience and classroom learning from Tulane University and elsewhere to bear on the questions.

The Harvard Business School originated and developed the phenomenon of the teaching case to simulate business experience in novices, to create a concrete vehicle for applying abstract theories to real-world situations, and to engender engaged classroom discussion while fostering critical thinking skills as students were forced to wrestle with actual business dilemmas that had no easy answer. It is no accident that professional schools were drawn to case teaching—Law, for obvious reasons—but also schools of public affairs and public health whose missions are to utilize the best thinking of the disciplines to prepare students for careers as practitioners. Cases marry learning about real world policy and organizational problems with critical thinking, abstract reasoning, and theorizing valued in all academic disciplines. In particular, this course will offer you a chance to get to know New Orleans as a resilient city with monumental challenges left to tackle.
TIDE 1019
Crime and Criminal Justice of New Orleans
(1)
This course is an exploration of crime and the criminal justice system in New Orleans. With New Orleans as its case, this course will examine why people commit and the conditions that foster crime, policing, the courts, jail/prison, and local movements and organizations seeking to create different criminal justice institutions and practices. It will examine the criminal justice system critically, considering questions of race, class and power as these structure how the CJ system operates as a whole. It will examine the New Orleans police department, the District Attorney and Orleans Public Defenders, the Sheriff and city jail, and advocacy groups such as the Orleans Prison Reform Movement. It will involve field trips to some of these locations, or representatives from the New Orleans CJ system visiting class or for online discussion should physical meetings be hindered.
TIDE 1020
Cities & Urban Environmt
(1)
Focusing on selections from the seminal work “The Death and Life of Great American Cities” by Jane Jacobs, we will explore and discuss its relevance to the city of New Orleans. We will also look directly at what is currently happening in the city of New Orleans via field studies, guest presentations and movies. Selected neighborhoods of New Orleans will be explored as vehicles for looking at the social, political, and economic life of cities. By focusing on particular and local examples we will, in effect, also address urban issues that are both more general and global. You will be invited to learn ‘how to see’ (observe) the many aspects of the city, be introduced to tools for the analysis of city form and city behavior, and be asked to draw conclusions from what you read for this class as well as your experiences.
TIDE 1023
Reproductive Politics in NOLA
(1)
From sex education for middle and high schoolers to nutrition assistance for impoverished new parents, the phrase “reproductive politics” encompasses far more than debates over abortion and contraception. This one-credit first-year course explores American studies scholar Laura Briggs’ claim that “all politics [are] reproductive politics,” with a particular focus on the political and legal realities of reproductive life in the city of New Orleans.
TIDE 1026
Superheroes: Race, Gender, and Orientation
(1)
This course examines the construction of race, gender, and orientation in several popular cultural ideological mediums. We will examine the construction and representation of race and gender in the superhero genre. We will discuss the intersection between the ideas of gaze and perspective. We will examine the representation of race and gender in the superhero cinematic genre. We will examine the intersections and relationships between race, gender, and economic class. We will theorize the economic impact of race and gender in the superhero film genre. We will consider the construction of the idea of the exceptional as it relates to the representation of race and gender in the superhero film genre. We will also include consideration of race, gender and orientation in a larger and more broad television audience.
TIDE 1027
Social Media Cuts Both Ways
(1)
Over the several years, widespread concern about the effects of social media on democracy has led to an explosion in research from different disciplines and corners of academia. In the class, students will look at issues like information and disinformation, online hate speech and free speech, political advertising and messaging, and personal privacy rights and assess both sides of the topic for good or bad engagement.
TIDE 1028
Masculinities, Femininities & Sexualities on Campus & Beyond
(1)
This course will introduce students to social science academic studies and critically engaged scholarship that explore how men's and women's shifting social roles around sex, gender, and sexuality binaries intimately shape young people's sense of self in emerging adulthood. College, particularly a residential college experience, can be very destabilizing as gendered constructions of young adulthood, typically rooted in the media and popular culture, shape how young men and women explore their identities and sexualities within the context of campus cultures. These cultures are not inevitable or natural,but their impacts are very real and reverberate through young people's lives. Some examples include:the pressure to fit into normative binary identities and organizations, strict gendered appearance standards, hooking up, drinking, partying, and having fun, picking a college major and a career path, starting and ending friendships and romantic relationships, and learning what it means to belong the social category "man" or "woman" in our contemporary world. By exposing the often-invisible web of culture, hegemony, and power that shape our feelings, our identities, our opportunities, and our constraints,we can better locate ourselves within their impacts and to forge more conscientious and engaged relationships with ourselves, with our environment,and with others.
TIDE 1030
Music & Culture of Nola
(1)
The Music and Culture of New Orleans introduces the newcomer to New Orleans to the diversity of culture in the city and region. The 11-week course explores the music, literature, art, dance, architecture, and food that are unique to Southern Louisiana so that during your student years here you can fully enjoy them. This TIDES course includes general lectures by experts in the various aspects of the culture of New Orleans. Interspersed and alternating are small sections where these experts converse directly with the freshmen, helping each individual explore the city. Students are directed to the most important music venues in the city, as well as to the best Creole and Cajun restaurants. In addition to the class meetings, each student is expected to join in at least two field trips to witness the culture first hand.
TIDE 1031
Ideology&Belief Everday Life
(1)
The course looks at the main beliefs and ideologies prevalent in our culture. Ideas like the entrepreneurial self, celebrity, pleasure-seeking, economic man, techno-optimism,God, nation, race, and family. These ideas are constantly hammered into us by the media,our friends, family and institutions, motivational speakers, business gurus, films, but also in the actions we take in our everyday lives and even more deeply in the experience of who we are.We will look at the origin of these ideas, their often-adverse societal effects and why they sometimes make us feel dis-empowered,anxious, and depressed. The course thus attempts to do two things at the same time.First teach students to critically think about their society and culture, and second help them achieve more personal freedom and well-being.
TIDE 1032
Jazz and New Orleans
(1)
Jazz is often called "America's Classical Music." It is the only global art form invented by Americans, as created and developed by African-Americans in New Orleans. Jazz began life as "emancipation music," according to clarinetist Sidney Bechet. This class will draw a straight line from the New Orleans jazz of Bechet and Louis Armstrong to the contemporary brass-band funk of Rebirth,Trombone Shorty, and the Soul Rebels.
TIDE 1033
Taylor Your Tulane
(1)
Taylor Your Tulane is a 1-credit TIDES course that applies human-centered design (design thinking) mindsets and tools to support first-year students in designing a fulfilling college experience. Students in this course will build an understanding of how they can be designers in their own lives and prototype different “investments” in the college experience by building a diversified college portfolio that includes their education, and relationships and experiences on campus and in New Orleans. Topics include the purpose of college, major selection, educational way finding, and interest exploration outside of the classroom, all applied through an introduction to Design Thinking (the course is offered through the Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking). This seminar class incorporates small group discussion, in-class activities, field exercises, personal reflection, and individual coaching.
TIDE 1034
NoLa - The Lay of the Land
(1)
This course explores the geography of New Orleans and coastal Louisiana, with a focus on forces that created and threaten the river delta on which the city sits. The course examines the levee system, climate change, sea level rise, industrial impacts to coastal wetlands, along with measures to promote a resilient city in the face of environmental and other threats. The course will also explore these issues in the context of social equity and environmental justice. Students will hear from a coastal specialist, learn about the city’s resiliency efforts, visit areas of the city that experienced the most devastation following hurricane Katrina, and tour a levee adjacent to a cypress swamp.
TIDE 1035
Introduction to Yoga
(1)
Yoga is a practice that offers many tools for living skillfully. This class will arm first year students with tools to help ground, calm, and focus them. The best part is that these lessons come from sweating, moving, going upside down, chanting, breathing, talking, listening, and having fun. The Sanskrit work Kula means a community, and we will create a Kula in our class, as well as connect with the New Orleans yoga community. This course is for anyone who loves yoga, or is just interested in learning more about it.
TIDE 1036
Sexuality, Knowledge Production, and Education
(1)
The goal of this course is to introduce students to the various ways that the pursuit of knowledge is carried out within and across scholarly disciplines. Grounded in an interdisciplinary exploration of sexuality, knowledge production, and education, students will learn about the purpose and processes of academic research; examine various forms of academic research to appreciate the similarities and differences in questions and methods of scholarship; and study the organization of knowledge and the role of the scholarly communities. In so doing, students will analyze research across disciplines relating to human sexuality, as well as the effects and implications of research on policy and practice related sexuality education. This course meets once a week through the entire semester.
TIDE 1038
Beyond Orgo:Becoming a Good Dr
(1)
Gen Chem, Bio, Orgo, Physics, the MCAT:every premed student knows the prerequisites for medical school. But becoming a good doctor takes much more than lab time and formulas. It requires critical thinking,teamwork, communication skills, resilience,adaptability, emotional intelligence, cultural competence, a capacity for improvement, a desire to serve others, and a strong moral compass. In this course, you will examine the human-centered skills necessary to become the good doctors our world needs. Through readings, guest lectures, reflections, and collaborative projects, you will evaluate your personal strengths and weaknesses, identify helpful role models and resources, and discover the ways you can develop these essential skills at Tulane and beyond.
TIDE 1039
Design for Pollinators
(1)
In this course, students will learn the basic principles of beekeeping and work in groups to design and construct beehives for honeybees and other pollinators. These designs will be released as open access designs for anyone to use. Course discussions will cover the basics of pollination and ecological hive management, hive designs around the world according to community needs and local plenty vs material scarcity, hive designs tailored to specific pollinators, and principles of open access and inclusive design. We will work in Tulane’s MakerSpace.
TIDE 1040
Religion Media Politics & Food
(1)
From the influence of the religious right to the impact of gay marriage on the social fabric, religion is moving front and center in our culture. But so is food.  Religion and food are often thought as distinct, separate. But in fact religion, cuisine, sexual orientation, the media, and way of life issues strongly impact politics.  In this class we will discuss the relationships of these factors on present-day consciousness. This will be a student-centered class, so come ready to share your thoughts.
TIDE 1043
LGBTQ+ New Orleans
(1)
This seminar explores LGBTQ+ life in New Orleans from an interdisciplinary perspective. It focuses on the LGBTQ+ history of the city, narratives of personal
experiences, cultural representations and expressions, and current research on discrimination and on social and health programs.
TIDE 1044
Gender & Sports Through an Intersectional Lens
(1)
The US sports industry is a highly gendered social institution with a long history of
reproducing gender inequality. This course invites students to reconsider sports and
the idea of athleticism through the lens of intersectional feminism. Over twelve
weeks, we will look at sports from several different angles: as proof that gender is
a social construct, and that men and women are more alike than different; as an
important site where cultural understandings of masculinity and femininity are
constantly being redefined; as a source of case studies for examining social
problems like sexual violence and the wage gap; and as a medium for exploring
our campus, our health and well-being, and the city of New Orleans.
TIDE 1046
Think Like Leonardo da Vinci
(1)
This course introduces you to college study and research through emulation of the Renaissance genius Leonardo da Vinci (1452-1519). To coincide with the 500th anniversary of his death, you will be invited to keep notebooks just like he did. We will examine Leonardo’s artworks as a way to investigate Renaissance ideas of nature, its transformative potential, and the natural and built environment. Each week you will you be tasked with a theme to explore that relates to one of his fields of interest. After viewing his drawings and writings (in English!), you too will investigate subjects that interested Leonardo and his peers—such as botany, anatomy, machine design, and flight—and learn to articulate in your notebooks your own insights and approaches to studying these topics. You’ll have ample opportunity to get to know New Orleans through prompts that invite you to study in New Orleans like Leonardo might have done: you’ll be invited to visit the New Orleans Museum of Art, the Pharmacy Museum, and Audubon Park. Weekly discussions will discuss the artist’s approaches and your own. For your notebooks, you will not be assessed on artistic merit, but rather for the depth of your engagement with the assignment.
TIDE 1047
Exploring Creole New Orleans: Three Centuries of Creole Culture in the Crescent City
(1)
New Orleans is a city celebrated for its vibrant and diverse cultural heritage, and inextricably intertwined with its 300-year history is the concept of "Creole." This course offers an interdisciplinary journey into the multilayered world of Creole politics, culture, and artistic expression in the Crescent City, exploring the complexities of Creole identity, its rich culinary traditions, distinctive architecture, aspects of Creole languages, and the importance of Creole music. Readings, discussions, guest speakers, and field trips will encourage students to gain a deeper appreciation of the city’s Creole heritage and foster critical thinking about historical events and their impacts on the city’s different social and ethnic groups.
TIDE 1048
AI Unleashed: Mastering ChatGPT for Success
(1)
This course empowers students to ethically harness ChatGPT, an AI-driven conversational agent, to supercharge their skills in research, creativity, writing, time management, critical thinking, and career exploration. By blending human ingenuity with AI-sourced information and efficiency, students will become early adopters of AI technology and responsible AI citizens.
TIDE 1049
Challenging American Cultural Myths
(1)
This seminar is meant to develop students’ critical thinking skills by revisiting and challenging commonly accepted American cultural myths, such as the myths of justice, of education and empowerment, of progress on the tech frontier, of individual opportunity, of gender, and of race. Students will acquire the methods to read written texts, analyze visual documents, and write critically through discussions around thought-provoking issues.
TIDE 1051
German Heritage in the Crescent City
(1)
This seminar will introduce students to various aspects of German culture in New Orleans. We will explore how German immigrants helped shape the cultural, social, and political structure of the Crescent City.Today, New Orleans is primarily known for its French and Spanish influence, but in the years before the American Civil War, the German population of New Orleans made up the largest German colony south of the Mason-Dixon line.German settlers dominated the local beer industry, supplied New Orleans with food harvested in the outlying parishes, and were an integral part of the local cultural scene. With the advent of World War I, Anti-German sentiment in Louisiana grew, and by the end of the war all expression of German culture was prohibited by law. Gradually, the German language disappeared,and German traditions were forgotten. However, if we dig a little deeper, we will find ample evidence of a once vibrant German culture, remnants of which survive to the present day.Students will have the opportunity to enjoy traditional German food, go on field trips to German sites,and meet with people from the German community.A variety of readings (excerpts from books and short articles), documentaries, as well as guest lectures will be part of the class. Knowledge of German is not required.
TIDE 1052
Climate Changes Solutions
(1)
The course is a global examination of human adaptations, resilience, technologies, and indigenous/traditional culture responses to climate change challenges. We will learn about climate science, climate change challenges, and societal and community responses to these challenges.
TIDE 1053
Horrific Monsters
(1)
This course will engage in a critical and historical exploration and analysis of the horror genre in film. In due course we will discuss the origins of horror as a film genre; the definitive characteristics of horror, both formally and narratively; horror’s intersections with major critical and social themes and issues; the monster as the definitive characteristic of horror films; and the various ways in which the monster is imagined.
TIDE 1054
Navigating American College Culture
(1)
This seminar explores American college culture from an intercultural perspective. Students will acquire the tools to cope not only with the specificities of American college culture and expectations, but also with issues related to interpersonal relations and the diversity of identities and cultures in the US.
TIDE 1056
Ancient Magic, Modern Witchcraft
(1)
For the inhabitants of the ancient world, magic and witchcraft were part of everyday life. In modern-era New Orleans, magical practitioners have also found a home and a place in the local culture. This course will explore magical literature, rituals, and beliefs in two ways: first as they existed in ancient Near Eastern civilizations (such as Mesopotamia and biblical Israel), and how these beliefs continue into modern America (especially locally in NOLA). Students will learn the skills necessary to succeed at a rigorous university (such as close reading, academic writing, and class participation) while exploring topics such as demonology, illness, prayer, exorcism,and witchcraft.
TIDE 1057
Ancient Greece in New Orleans
(1)
This course will take you through a journey that explores how the culture of Ancient Greece has been incorporated and displayed in New Orleans. Working as a group, we will discover how Ancient Greek culture has permeated the fabric of the city, from architectural choices to Mardi Gras krewes. Through this unusual and engaging journey, we will build a new appreciation for the composite world that is New Orleans, where ancient and modern blends, and where different cultures, including ancient ones, become a distinctive identity. All the while learning the skills necessary for a successful college experience.
TIDE 1058
Comedy! (Or 19 Ways to Analyze a Joke Until It Isn't Funny Anymore)
(1)
This 1-credit course fulfills the First-Year Seminar requirement as a Tulane Interdisciplinary Experience Seminar (TIDES). In this course we will discuss how to deconstruct standard comic format, read and discuss five different comic theories, look at 19(+) different comic structures to create a final project.
TIDE 1059
Fundamentals of Traditional Martial Arts Training
(1)
This dynamic course offers students a comprehensive introduction to the world of Traditional Martial Arts with a focus on Taekwondo, Krav Maga, Boxing, and general fitness. Designed to accommodate all levels of experience, from beginners to seasoned practitioners, the course provides an in-depth exploration of each discipline's historical roots, philosophical underpinnings, and cultural significance. Students will learn the foundational movements of traditional martial arts. Instruction will emphasize the artistry of martial forms, the tactics of sportive engagement, and the practicalities of self-defense, all while improving overall physical fitness. Classes are conducted in a safe, non-contact setting to ensure a learning environment that is both challenging and supportive. Through collaborative assignments, students will engage in group activities that encourage peer learning and teamwork, fostering an environment of mutual respect and camaraderie. The curriculum is designed to challenge students' perceptions and encourage growth in both martial arts proficiency and personal development. Through written and oral assignments, students will reflect on their experiences and articulate their understanding of the material covered. As an added value to this course, students who fulfill the requirements will have the opportunity to be awarded international rank recognition by a global traditional martial arts association. This distinction not only celebrates the skills acquired but also connects students to the larger martial arts community worldwide.
TIDE 1060
NOLA Global at the Local
(1)
Open only to Altman Scholars, this TIDES experience plays an important role in the 4-year curriculum of the Altman Program in International Studies and Business. The students that make up each Altman “cohort” will take one class together each semester that they are on campus during their studies. Altman TIDES will kick off these courses during the Fall of their Freshman year. With an eye towards producing exceptional global citizens, Altman TIDES introduces students to the rich cultural fabric of New Orleans by examining past and present contributions made by peoples of different ethnicity and race. The cultures of French, Spanish, Italian, Creole, African, Latino, Jewish and Vietnamese residents, both past and present, have shaped New Orleans into the vibrant city that it is today. 

Specifically, we will discuss each group’s impact on New Orleans’ history, culture, economy and business and the challenges each faced in the process of social and cultural integration.  Along the way, students will be exposed to some of the finest food representative of each group that makes New Orleans one of the greatest cities in the world – and an interesting place to directly study international influences at a local level.  For Altman Scholars Only.
TIDE 1061
Learning Through Discovery
(1)
Welcome! As a member of the Tulane community, you are part of a diverse and developed scientific community. In this course we’ll work on developing ways of learning and basic scientific skills that will aid you if you are interested in getting research experience and help you in succeeding in your coursework. This course is designed to teach you new thinking and learning skills, and to apply those skills to develop and run an iterative hypothesis-driven experiment. You will experience the collaborative nature of science by working in groups and receiving feedback on your work from your peers.
TIDE 1062
Calm the Wave: Being in NOLA
(1)
The transition to university life can present challenges, as you juggle less structure, more demands, new roles, and increased pressures.  The purpose of this TIDES course is to help you develop social and emotional skills; benefitting you in academic and work contexts, interpersonal relationships, and overall well-being.  Explore the tranquil side of New Orleans and discover your best self through mindfulness and self awareness activities.This course is designed to help students develop strengths and assets that promote their social and emotional well-being as they transition to a higher education setting in New Orleans.  Such settings typically present students with less structure, more demands, new roles, and increased pressures which may contribute to struggles with stress and adjustment difficulties. The purpose of this course is to help students develop social and emotional skills; benefiting them in academic and work contexts, interpersonal relationships, and overall well-being. Students will explore tranquil locations throughout the city of New Orleans.  Along the way, they will be introduced to social and emotional competencies that can help promote their personal and interpersonal awareness and competence which will help students navigate new and challenging academic, social, and emotional terrain. These competencies include: self-awareness; self-management; social awareness; relationship skills; and responsible decision making.
TIDE 1063
Tell Me More About It: Paths to Improving Mental Health
(1)
Using readings, discussions, interactive group interviews and field trips, students will learn about different career pathways to engaging others in improving mental health. Students will meet different professionals in the city, hear about their paths, learn about their theoretical orientation, and reflect on the experiences they will pursue while at Tulane relevant to this career choice.
TIDE 1064
What is a Book?
(1)
This 1-credit Tides course introduces you to research through a historical and experiential engagement with the myriad forms and aspects of one of the oldest and most ubiquitous communication and information technologies: the book. Rather than consume books for their content (text), in this course, our concern will be with the whole book (from cover to binding, to page design and marks left on margins) as a material object. From scroll to codex, to e-book, and from manuscript tradition to print, we will learn the books’ anatomy and how to read and interpret those physical features as evidence. In the process, students will gain a deeper appreciation for the book as an object as they explore the book form alongside its text.
Each week we will explore the history of book making processes including letterpress printing, book binding, papermaking, and various 20th c printing and duplicating technologies. We will learn about appreciating books as objects through lectures, discussions, and hands on experiments with bookmaking. The class will culminate with each student creating their own book object. In addition, we will enjoy visits with local printers and book makers and virtual visits from book artists and book historians.
The course is ideal for students considering majors in art history, art, English, history, archeology, media studies, science, or any subject that requires reading or using books.
TIDE 1066
Media and Narrative in Modern U.S. Presidential Campaigns
(1)
This course explores the development of the modern United States presidential campaign, with an emphasis on mass media. Considering the development of new communications technologies, how has the presidential campaign changed over the last six decades? How has it remained the same? The class will consider the creation of narrative across radio, television and social media outlets.Various forms of mass communication, including radio, television, and social media networks, will be considered as channels for political campaign development. The development of emerging technologies and media landscapes will be contextualized.
TIDE 1067
Nazism Fascism & the Alt-Right
(1)
This course is inspired by current events, including the rise of alt-right, populist, and authoritarian parties and governments across the globe. Its aim is to use the tools of media analysis and social and literary theory in order to deepen our understanding of where and how these movements arose, how neo-fascism appeals to voters in different places and contexts, and, crucially, how leaders have harnessed popular sentiments to their own end. Readings and discussions are based on contemporary media as well as classical historical sources.Important themes in the course will include roots and causes of fascism, fascism as imperialism and racism, fascist attitudes toward gender and class, theories of totalitarianism, the psychology of fascism.
TIDE 1068
The Pluto & Charon System
(1)
This TIDES course explores the Pluto-Charon system, the public’s perception of Pluto, its history, and its science. Students will learn about the search for ‘Planet 9’, the discovery of Pluto and objects beyond, as well as the recent exploration of the Pluto-Charon system and Ultima Thule by the NASA New Horizon’s mission. In addition, students will explore and discuss the elusive questions: What is a planet? Is Pluto a planet? The course will include one field trip to Gretna Observatory one evening during the semester. This course is 1 credit hour.
TIDE 1070
Nola Musuems & Communiti
(1)
Get to know New Orleans through an exploration of its museums, from art museums to contemporary galleries to house museums and beyond. Students will seek to understand how museums in New Orleans serve diverse communities in the city. To understand museum practice more generally, we will also explore past and current methods in museum curation and education, ethical issues museums face, and how museums respond in times of war and natural disasters. Ideal for students considering majors in art history or history.
TIDE 1071
Running and Imagination
(1)
This course explores running as an activity of the embodied imagination--through reading, discussion, and running. When we run, our minds work with and against the body’s limitations. Those limitations can be viewed as obstacles to be overcome, but also as constructive forms of resistance that give meaning to our activities. To run a certain distance at a certain pace gives shape to the activity just like paragraphs shape prose or form and meter shapes poetry. Running can also be a way of exploring difference and resisting social constraints; it can also be used an expression of those constraints. Class meetings will alternate between discussions of texts—fiction and non-fiction—that explore the relationship between the physical activity of running and human imagination and identity, and clinics and practice sessions on various aspects of running as a physical activity for health and competition. We will occasionally run together, at whatever pace suits the members of the class. Students in this class should be interested in running and willing to run. But being a fast or accomplished runner is not a requirement!
TIDE 1072
Object(ive) Data: Collections, Databases and Museums
(1)
Museums and galleries can inspire awe with the objects and materials they put on display. From the histories of their making, through their preservation over time, objects in museum collections tell stories and reflect larger legacies of movements and change. It is the role of museum staff to extrapolate themes and concepts from their collections, collating information and different interpretations which are recorded in museum databases. Databases allows museums to document objects, but what more can their data do? Can data help museums reevaluate the significance of their objects and collections as a whole? Does the data alone tell a story? And does it come with its own limitations and biases?
In this TIDES course, students will have the opportunity to investigate the benefits, challenges, and constraints of managing museum’s collection data. Following a brief grounding in the history of museum collections from both an art historical and a collections management perspective, students will progress through weekly conversations and site visits that illuminate the
practicalities, perks, and pitfalls that can emerge at the intersections of historical materials and data analysis. Alongside these components, students in this course will gain “hands on” access to a selection of objects from the Newcomb Art Museum (NAM) as they work to research and draft thematic object checklists as a capstone to our course that can potentially be published as a resource for others on campus.
TIDE 1073
Artists Respond: NOLA Through Visual Culture
(1)
Art is a conversation that takes place over time and space. It is a response to events past and present, and an invitation to discuss how we shape our future. Art creates community, but it also reflects the communities it is created out of. This course will provide an understanding of New Orleans through the lens of Visual and Performing Arts. The course will introduce students to the rich cultural heritage of New Orleans while gaining insight to how history, environment, politics, socioeconomic conditions, and diversity has shaped life in the city, and how the art of the city responds to help define its culture. Through numerous artists, artworks, cultural traditions, and temporary exhibitions, students will learn how art can provide a reflection on where we’ve been, alternatives to where we are, and opportunities for ways forward as a city or a community.
TIDE 1074
Foodways in Asian American New Orleans
(1)
You already know that New Orleans is famous for its food, but how much do you know about its Asian American foodways? The seminar employs food and foodways as an analytical framework to explore issues of identity, migration, imperialism, race, gender, and sexuality. Through a diverse range of texts including short stories, films, documentaries, menus, cookbooks, and blogs, we will consider what food reveals about cultures, relations, and identity in Asian diasporas with a focus on locales and traditions in New Orleans. Along the way, you will have the opportunity to reflect on your own relationship to food as a first-year student at Tulane University.
TIDE 1076
Visualizing Justice: Urban Environments, Climate Challenges, and Just Sustainable Futures
(1)
This course combines practical skill building, active learning, and engagement activities to support local communities around issues of environmental and urban justice, climate challenges, and sustainable futures for New Orleans and the surrounding Gulf Coast. While examining the fields of data literacy and interpretation, artificial intelligence (AI) and algorithmic bias, and the ethical considerations about how data is collected, interpreted, and used for policy decision making and community engagement (data justice fields). The substantive emphasis of the course will be on the use of data for advocacy and support of communities involving urban justice (e.g., inequality, policing, carceral rights, poverty, housing, etc.), environmental justice, (e.g., polluted neighborhoods, indoor and outdoor air pollution, water and soil pollution, etc.), all in an effort to move New Orleans and surrounding communities from their climate challenges to just sustainable futures. The course will also explore community empowerment through the instruction of techniques of data advocacy, citizen science, political activism, etc.
TIDE 1077
When Empire Does Not Atone: The Case of Russia
(1)
The seminar will introduce students to the imperial legacy context of Russia’s aggression against its neighbors that culminated in an all-out invasion of Ukraine attempted in February 2022 and now transformed into the largest-scale war on Europe since WWII. -The mainstream media discourse about the motives for the ongoing atrocities evolves between the (Kremlin’s) narrative about NATO’s expansion, ethnic rights for self-determination, and the war as a tool to perpetuate the usurpation of power by Putin’s “elite” in Russia and its neighbors.  This discourse overlooks the role of failure to fully admit and qualify the crimes that the Soviet Union (and the Russian Empire before it) committed against the people that inhabited the lands it captured and controlled during its reign. There were several attempts to rectify the imperial legacy and to atone for them. Yet all of them eventually failed.  One manifestation of the latest failure is the obstruction of access to swaths of state archives even at peaks of the brief democratization of Russia during the 1990s.  The implications of that failure are profound.  They yield fertile grounds for distorted beliefs about “historical justice” across the world and facilitate the effectiveness of a fascist-style propaganda in nowadays Russia.
TIDE 1078
Donald Trump's America
(1)
This seminar will introduce students to the state of American politics and society surrounding the presidency of Donald Trump.  It is not designed to be solely a look at his election in 2016 and his administration; instead, it is a broad exploration of the factors that lead to his election and the resulting “state of the union.”  Through readings and discussion of current events, we will explore the history of our current state of public opinion, issues regarding polarization, race relations, and gender dynamics, and the prospects for forming a “united” country in the midst of a divisive era.
TIDE 1079
Haiti and New Orleans
(1)
Haiti is inexorably tied to New Orleans through historic and contemporary through lines beginning with the only successful rebellion by enslaved people in the Americans that eventually led to independence of Haiti and to this small island nation becoming the first free Black country in the entire world in 1804. As a result of the defeat of the French army in St. Domingue, Napoleon yielded the French territory to the U.S. government in the form of the Louisiana Purchase. Throughout the late 1700’s and early 1800’s, the revolution’s impact was felt throughout the U.S. South and by 1809, 10,000 Haitians arrived in New Orleans, doubling the population. There are parallels between New Orleans and Haiti in the areas of architecture, cuisine, cultural celebrations, and music that emerge to even the casual observer. Even though a majority of Haitian settlers from the early 20th century in the New Orleans Ninth Ward area were displaced by events surrounding Hurricane Katrina, immigrant communities of Haitians, particularly on the West Bank of New Orleans have grown due to the contemporary political and natural disasters within the island country. This first-year seminar course will examine the fascinating history and contemporary landscape of the connective tissue between Haiti and New Orleans through a range of readings, reflections, class discussions, as well as through experiential elements including field trips.
TIDE 1081
The History and Rituals of Voodoo in New Orleans
(1)
This 1-credit course fulfills the First-Year Seminar requirement as a Tulane Interdisciplinary Experience Seminar (TIDES). In this course we will discuss the history, culture, misconceptions, pop allure, rituals and rites of Voodoo (Vodou) in New Orleans.
TIDE 1082
Crescent City Conundrum – How do we build a healthy New Orleans?
(1)
Health is influenced by factors beyond one's genetics. The social determinants of health - where we are born, raised, work, and play - contribute to our overall health. Inequities in these determinants lead to inequities in health. In this TIDES course we will look at New Orleans through the lens of social determinants of health and the health care institutions that have served the people in this community. We will explore the history of New Orleans to understand the social, economic, and racial disparities that impact our residents' health and wellbeing today. Finally, we will look to the future and see what's on the agenda for improving the health of New Orleanians.
TIDE 1083
Cultural Heritage, Social Change: The Activist Archivist
(1)
Activist Archivst, noun. Meaning 1: An archivist who strives to document the underdocumented aspects of society and to support political and social causes through that work. Meaning 2: An archivist who seeks to move the archives profession, archives workplaces, and society in general toward social justice

Howard Zinn coined the term “activist archivist” in his seminal 1970 address to the Society of American Archivists, in which he challenged cultural heritage professionals to disrupt the status quo and confront social injustices through their work. This class introduces students to the fundamentals of archives and cultural heritage information management, with special attention to the role record-keeping plays in both reifying and dismantling systems of power and how activism can take the form of memory work. Students will develop knowledge of major theories and practices of cultural heritage information management by interacting with primary source materials during visits to the various and eclectic archives of Tulane University and New Orleans. They will apply a critical, investigative lens with consideration for how collective and individual memory is produced and preserved, and whose stories get told. Students will also engage with alternative, activist forms of memory-keeping, including zines, oral histories, craftwork, tarot and oracle decks, and other art forms, through class visits with local memory workers and field trips to explore New Orleans memory work that blurs the lines of art/archives/activism. The class will culminate with a group project: the creation of a zine, a scrapbook, or a documentary product of your group’s own design, as a tangible record of your semester experience.
This class is ideal for students interested in anthropology, history, studio art, or those considering future work in Public History or the GLAM (galleries, libraries, archives, museums) sector.
TIDE 1084
New Orleans in Film and Literature
(1)
TIDE 1086
Engineering New Orleans
(1)
In this course, students will explore engineering projects local to the New Orleans area. From the St. Louis Cathedral to the Superdome, the Crescent City Connection to the Causeway, the Lapeyre Shrimp Peeler to Mardi Gras Megafloats, Oil & Gas to Wind & Solar Energy, NASA Rockets to Nerves-On-A-Chip, New Orleans has a wide array of engineering interests. These projects, advancements, and industries will be introduced and put into perspective with discussions of their technology, histories, economic impacts, and cultural influence. The topics will be brought to life by local guest speakers and trips to one or more of the following: NASA Michoud, Mardi Gras World, the Superdome, and the French Quarter.
TIDE 1087
Science,Technology, and Society
(1)
Those interested in and pursuing STEM fields have often felt like they were exempt from the conversation on society. They have often been excluded from discussions regarding the ethical implications of the progress that they pay a key role in. In this class, we will use various lenses to view the technical advancements in big data, science and engineering, including those that you may be working on in the coming four years. We will examine the global, societal, economic, and environmental implications of subjects such as ethics of big data, AI, social media, digital media, large scale engineering projects, scientific research , medicine and big pharma, and more, focusing on examples found in the NOLA area. The topics will be brought to life by local guest speakers from local organizations such as Glass Half Full or Green Light NOLA as well as trips to one or more of the following: NASA Michoud, Mardi Gras World, the Superdome, and a Flood Abatement Pumping Station.
TIDE 1088
The Artful Leader
(1)
The course will focus on exploring questions on leadership from non-theoretical lens by emphasizing manifestations of leadership in different forms of art (poetry, fiction, painting, sculpture, film, etc.). Using the medium of art, the students will be able to access and distill their own observations about leadership throughout time, which we will then compare to contemporary theories from the fields of organizational psychology and leadership studies.
TIDE 1089
New Orleans Through a Paranormal Lens
(1)
New Orleans is a city rich in history, culture, and spirits. Some of that history and culture has been responsible for events associated with hauntings and other paranormal/supernatural occurrences (and vice versa). Using the haunted history of the city as a touchstone or lens, we will explore the non-paranormal history and cultural make-up of New Orleans from before its founding to modern times.
TIDE 1090
Who Dat, Fan Up & Geaux
(1)
Founded in 1718, the city of New Orleans has a long and rich history with sports. From the rise of social class-driven sports such as rowing and billiards to the New Orleans Saints’ heroic revival of the city post-Hurricane Katrina, sports has been as integral to the area as food, music, and Mardi Gras. Sports have made an enduring impact on the social world in which we all live. It is a taken for granted aspect of our everyday lives – whether that entails watching “Sportscenter” or noticing that every single major newspaper contains a “Sports” section that is as long if not longer than any other section. Yet there is more to sport than just what we see on a daily basis. In this course, we will explore general sports-related topics and examine actual case studies related to New Orleans’ sports scene. More than simply ‘talking sports,’ students will study issues from political, economic and social viewpoints and also gain an understanding of the rich sports heritage found here in New Orleans. Readings and discussions, field trips, and guest speakers will aid students to understand both historical accounts and modern-day subjects associated with sports such as governmental involvement, public financing, and community development. Students will participate in a mandatory service learning component with TBD. Their after-school programs promote development in boys and girls through activities that build character, cultivate new skills, and create a sense of belonging – in this case a place where kids can express themselves, play together and get fit. By participating in activities with NFL Youth Education Town students will deepen their understanding of the political, economic, and social ramifications of sports on a local level by making correlations to sports and its impacts on the city’s youth, infrastructure, civic pride, crime reduction efforts, poverty eradication, and other areas, and gain an awareness of their role as a citizen in the city of New Orleans.
TIDE 1091
Representing Minorities in Spanish Cinema
(1)
“-Borja, where are you from? -I am Spanish -Oh great, which country?” (question that your professor has been asked many a time). What is being Spanish? There is a misconception in the US about what this word means. Spanish refers to a person born and raised in Spain, so, what is Spain? Spain is a predominantly white country situated in the south of Europe who has enjoyed an ethnic, racial, gender, and religious diversity since very early in history. Therefore, the aim of this course is to study the representation of ethnic, racial, gender, and religious minorities through Spanish cinema in the late 20th century and the early 21st century. Despite advances in integration in the last twenty years, the underlying racism, xenophobia, homophobia, and transphobia from certain sectors of society is still palpable in different areas of this society. We will address questions of diversity, inclusion, discrimination and (lack of) opportunity. In the last section of this class, we will also examine the representation of Spanish people in US American cinema, sometimes taking them as exotic or even having white Spanish actors playing roles from people in Latin America. By the end of the course, students will have a space to compare the situation in Spain with their own country and seeing the parallels in diversity and discrimination between the two countries, probably, reaching the conclusion, that the situation is not that different. Similarly, we will also delve into the idea that a Spanish person automatically becomes a minority in the US imaginary due to their Hispanic origins and the fact they speak Spanish.
TIDE 1092
Latinx in Hollywood
(1)
For over a hundred years, cinema has played a key role in shaping your social imaginaries and in creating types and stereotypes. Different national cinemas have their own lists of typical characters that speak eloquently of the economic, political, and cultural structures of their societies. Mainstream American cinema, arguably, exceeds the constraints of a national cinema and has become your conscience of the global subject, but it still formulates ideas and builds subjectivities that are deeply ingrained in your American imagination. Among these constructions is the portrayal of 'Latin America' and, more specifically, 'Latin Americans.' In this course, you will explore, analyze, and question the constructions devised by mainstream Hollywood films around Latin America and its characters. From studio recreations of South American cities in classic films (Gilda, Charles Vidor, 1946) or the US-Mexico border (Touch of Evil, Orson Welles, 1958) to solemn reflections on colonial history (The Mission, Roland Joffé, 1986) to enchanted versions of Mexican traditions (Coco, Disney-Pixar, 2017), American cinema has consistently imagined Latin America. In discussing six films and key critical readings, you will identify, describe, and critique this process. You will also reflect on its connections to current debates in the US.
TIDE 1093
Afro-Brazilian Resistance:Contesting Racism and Discrimination through Popular Culture
(1)
This course examines the racial history of Brazil and how it compares and contrasts with other regions in the Americas. Students will engage in weekly discussions about topics in Afro-Brazilian popular culture and will analyze the political resistance inherent in so many of these art forms. In addition to readings and films depicting the Afro-Brazilian experience, students will be collaborating with a local organization as part of their tier one service commitment. Our partner - Capoeira New Orleans - creates educational programming for New Orleans residents to practice and learn more about the Afro-Brazilian martial art capoeira.
TIDE 1094
Leading w/ Empathy: Cultivating Relationships, Building Community, and Navigating Conflict at Tulane
(1)
This course offers an introduction to the foundations of empathy and the role it plays in relationships and addressing conflict. Topics covered will include the primacy of empathy in addressing conflict, community building, active listening, and techniques to hold conversations among people in conflict or that disagree with each other. Students will gain an understanding of the role that inclusion and equity play in developing empathy and will learn, through personal reflection, guest lecture, and in-person experience, the skills and techniques necessary to manifest empathy in their own lives, relationships, and conflicts as well as various resources within the Tulane and Greater New Orleans community available for support when they run into problems within these areas.
TIDE 1096
Latin American Dance Cultures
(1)
This course examines issues of Latin American race, class, gender, nationality and global belonging through dance cultures. Students will learn how chosen dances, songs and rhythms are conveyors of cultural tenets, regional variations, and national trends.Since culture is made visible to us through its representations, students will learn to read and analyze Latin America through ethnographic texts about performance. Over the semester, students will learn through both theory and practice the techniques and philosophies of dance in selected Latin American performance circles. We will analyze Latin American festivals, stage/commercial performance and everyday cultural performance. As part of student training in ethnographic participant observation, students will also learn the basic steps of these studied dances and contextualize their work within the cultures of Latin American dance communities in New Orleans. In doing so, students will learn to think critically about the relation between text, ethnography and the body by paying attention to the demands that performance places on us as participants, spectators, scholars and commentators where we may be/act, see/hear, feel/sense, and think/evaluate within a world different from our own and understand its implications in governance, policy, and practice.No dance experience required!!!
TIDE 1097
Drugs in Music and Literature: Morocco, Spain, and New Orleans
(1)
"Drugs in Music and Literature: Morocco, Spain, and New Orleans" explores the historical and contemporary significance of cannabis as a countercultural and political resistance symbol, particularly within the realm of music, across diverse regions. Students analyze the cultural, social, and political contexts surrounding cannabis use, considering race, religious practices, and the influence of Islam and Sufi rituals. The seminar delves into the evolution and transculturation of musical genres such as Flamenco, Rock & Roll, Sufi- Trance Rock, and Jazz, examining how these genres have been shaped by the intersection of cannabis culture, race, hippie values, and religious traditions. Assessment is based on class participation, written assignments, and a final presentation or creative project, fostering critical thinking and interdisciplinary perspectives. This seminar aligns with the TIDES' goals of promoting active learning, intellectual challenges, and social co-curricular activities, providing students with a transformative interdisciplinary learning experience.
TIDE 1098
“We Didn’t Start the Fire” - Examining how Memory, History, and our Current Experiences Interact
(1)
In a global connected world where what happens on the other side of the planet is live streamed in real time, the experience of being a person living today can feel overwhelming. It can be argued that this is the worst time in human history. Is the world worse today than at any other time? What does our knowledge of memory and perception contribute to the understanding of the contemporary global context?
In Billy Joel’s song, “We Didn’t Start the Fire” over 100 cultural, social, political, and economic events which took place between 1948 and 1989 are highlighted. A recent remake by Fall Out Boy updates Joel’s song using events since 1989. The suggestion in these songs is that human history has been plagued with catastrophes and heralded with triumphs. In this course, students will identify the historical references in both songs comparing them to our current context.
Students will study the scientific literature on memory and how memories impact people’s current view of the state of our world. The course will culminate in students creating a survey to learn more about how people perceive the historical and current world contexts, and how these ideas interact with each other. Survey results will be analyzed to share findings and develop conclusions.
Throughout the course, students will have the opportunity to shape their own learning experience and development of critical thinking skills by contributing to each class session content, course materials, questions to discuss, and practicing research skills. This co-creation of the course between the professor and students is uniquely suited to the TIDES program and supports its objectives and outcomes.
TIDE 1101
Environmental & Climate Diplomacy
(1)
Diplomacy is defined as “the profession, activity, or skill of managing international relations, typically by a country's representatives abroad.”  This course will consider our role as members of a global society, and as guardians of a complex solid Earth-oceans-atmospheres system, and introduce concepts of circular economy, nature-based solutions, climate mitigation and adaptation, as well as the alphabet soup of global organizations, and U.S. diplomacy.
TIDE 1102
Talking New Orleans
(1)
Do you know how to pronounce New Orleans the right way?  Do you make groceries or wrench your dishes in the zink?  You’ll learn to talk like an insider in this class that looks at the history, development, and current diversity of New Orleans English!
We’ll start by taking an overview of the New Orleans (and by extension Louisiana’s) linguistic history, starting with the indigenous people who occupied the place called Bulbancha at the time of European arrival.  We’ll then examine the arrival of Europeans and Africans:  the languages they brought with them and the new one(s) they created here.  You’ll get hands-on experience collecting and analyzing linguistic data as you explore modern New Orleans, talking to locals, attending festivals and participating in the exciting culture this city has to offer.  By the end of the semester, you’ll be able to say what it really means to sound New Orleans!
TIDE 1103
The Art of Management
(1)
Management is the coordination and administration of tasks to achieve a goal. The
functions of management are planning, organizing, leading, and controlling. In the Art of Management, we will review and discuss these four functions using text, case studies, and simulations. We will explore companies that are run well and those who messed up along the way. Learning from the mess ups has the best growth opportunities.
TIDE 1105
Cultural Nutrition & Wellness
(1)
Welcome! As a member of the Tulane community, you are also now a part of the larger New Orleans community. In a city with such rich history, there is a vast divide of health and wellness options among the diverse cultural groups. Whether we are talking about access to nutritionally complete foods or more esoteric resources, such as mindfulness training, there is a long-standing disparity in our community. This course is designed to introduce students to overall health and wellness needs and availability among various communities in and around New Orleans.
TIDE 1107
Bioethics at the Movies
(1)
Movies and the stories they tell are a fantastic way to examine the issues in bioethics, as they allow us to extract, debate, and discuss abstract concepts and ideas with concrete cases and indepth contexts. We will look at interesting and challenging questions in bioethics using movies as the focus. In this class, we will watch mainstream films that address issues in ethics and health care, then explore some of the issues in those films in a little more depth. No prior experience in bioethics or study of film is required. We are going to explore and have fun.
TIDE 1113
Mindfulness: Self & Emotion
(1)
This class introduces different mindfulness techniques, application of mindfulness practices in understanding destructive emotions and cultivating positive emotions. Mindfulness techniques cover intentional cultivation of non-judgmental, non-reactive, present-moment awareness, bare attention and concentration. Concentration and mindfulness exercises will be practically studied and evaluated. Students will enhance their experience of awareness, clarity, and empathy. Students will also learn coping skills for emotional regulation, distress tolerance, depression, anxiety, stress, and insomnia. Students will be required to participate in daily mindfulness practices: self-awareness, identification of destructive emotions, logical and mindful responses, and compassionate living. The course will critically analyze mindfulness-based research articles and introduce to how to integrate different mindfulness techniques in research applications. Information will be based on recent scientific research and ancient Tibetan contemplative practices.
TIDE 1117
N. O. Performance Culture
(1)
There will be two primary goals in this course. The first will involve introducing students to New Orleans’s history, culture, and literature. The second will entail an interdisciplinary introduction to a wide array of influences with the effort of showing how New Orleans’s turbulent history of changing possession, immigration, and migration have contributed to a “performance” of various versions of “New Orleansness.” The course will focus specifically on the presence of French, Spanish, African, and a brief overview of the various immigrant communities in the city’s history and the various ways in which these groups have performed their own version of New Orleans for the city itself, the United States, and the world. In addition, the students will use the maps found in Unfathomable City: A New Orleans Atlas to look at how maps are constructions of authenticity.
TIDE 1122
Our Changing Ocean
(1)
In our terrestrial lives, the ocean may seem distant, daunting, even dreary. Yet, we live on a water planet. The ocean controls our climate, feeds us, contains vast mineral reserves, and harbors spectacularly diverse ecosystems like coral reefs. It is so vast that the Pacific Ocean alone covers nearly one third of our entire planet. We have mapped the moon to greater detail than most of the seafloor! From tiny gobies hiding amongst corals to critters lurking in the deep dark ocean interior, new ocean species are discovered all the time. The sheer size of the ocean almost makes it seem unchangeable, beyond our reach. But our ocean is changing, and it is changing rapidly. Fish stocks are depleted. Seawater is warming and acidifying. Corals are dying. Plastics are found from Antarctic penguins to deep ocean sediments. Despite the peril, all is not lost and there is still time for scientists, policymakers, engineers, lawyers, and entrepreneurs to work together to conserve all that the ocean provides us. This course will provide students an overview of spectacular ocean ecosystems, foster discussions about our changing ocean from legal, ethical, and scientific viewpoints, and explore the role the ocean will play in our future economy and climate. Beyond regular seminars, this course will include a field trip to the Audobon Aquarium and a day out on the ocean.
TIDE 1123
Freshman Fictions
(1)
This course invites students to explore the diverse experiences of the first year in college through fiction and creative storytelling across various formats, including prose fiction, graphic novels, podcasts, films, TV shows, songs, and plays. Throughout the semester, sessions will alternate between analyzing selected works of fiction and participating in creative workshops. During discussion sessions, students will examine how different media reflect and shape narratives about college life, from the challenges of new environments to personal growth. In workshop sessions, students will have the opportunity to share and workshop their own creative endeavors, inspired by either personal experiences or imagination. By the end of the course, students will have developed a deeper understanding of the role fiction plays in interpreting formative life experiences and will have produced their own creative works reflecting a personal or imagined first-year journey.
TIDE 1124
Archives in New Orleans and Beyond
(1)
Have you ever wondered what people two hundred years in the future will know, or think they know, about our society today, and how they will come to those conclusions? Undoubtedly (unless we have been replaced by omniscient robots by then), they will have to consult archives. What they find there depends on what those archives contain and how they are organized. This course is designed to get students thinking about what archives have been, are, and can be, as well as introduce them to a diverse selection of on-campus and New Orleans-based archives they might want to work with during their time at Tulane. Co-taught by a historian and a librarian, students will have the opportunity to think about archives both from the perspectives of researchers and archivists. We will be looking at “traditional” archives as well as the new possibilities for organizing, preserving, displaying, and curating knowledge that have been born with the digital revolution. We will think about archives that preserve documents, images, sounds, and even species. The course will culminate in the opportunity for each student to imagine an archive of their own—it could be of their own life, their family, school, home town, or any community they belong to—and present it to their classmates.
TIDE 1125
New Orleans as a D&D Campaign
(1)
The central conceit of this course is that all participants build characters for, and participate in, a Dungeons and Dragons (styled) adventure that is based around collaborative storytelling, problem solving, the building and development of critical analytic skills, and the discovery of identity. This course will employ the city of New Orleans – and the Tulane Campus – as the “world” in which these new adventures discover themselves. The students will begin this course by building “character sheets” based on who and what they are (Identity location markers) and what they bring to the adventure. This part of the class will encourage students to articulate their own strengths and – areas of themselves upon which they are working. We will partner with The Office of Multicultural Affairs to engage these students in a discussion of identification (self-identification and how we identify others). The students will be sent on an adventure during which they will have to learn to use the resources available to them in the Tulane University Library System. The students will be asked to go through Audubon Park (and Audubon Zoo) to find creatures and treasures. The students will be asked to go to the French Quarter and have specific foods that are specific to New Orleans Culture and listen to music that was created here in New Orleans. The students will be asked to take pictures and sample sounds as “proof” that they have completed their quests. The students will be asked to “scribe” and reflect upon their adventures. The students are going to be asked to consider the relationship between “game” and “real-life” when we talk to local New Orleans Health and wellness programs (CrescentCare). This course will be rooted in the concepts of discovery, and gaming, and responsibility for choosing one’s own adventure. We will also read at least on “fantasy” novel and discuss the nature of the narrative itself. We will discuss how the idea of women and female characters function in the book. We’ll talk about how the book depicts the idea of the protagonists, as well as, the “traditional” trope of male as default in much of fantasy fiction – and what that means. We will discuss how the novel utilizes and incorporates the concept of “race.”
TIDE 1126
Self Defense: Aikido – The Art of Peace
(1)
This course introduces the principles and techniques of Aikido for self-defense. Students will engage in physical practice, complemented by writing assignments and reading materials to deepen their understanding of Aikido's philosophy, techniques, and applications. The course aims to equip students with practical self-defense skills while fostering physical fitness, mental discipline, and an appreciation of Aikido's ethical dimensions.
TIDE 1127
Introduction to Arab Cinema
(1)
This course explores Arab cinema as a gateway to understanding the rich cultural landscape of the Arab world. While the region shares many commonalities, each Arab country has its own distinct traditions, values, and social dynamics. We will examine how these differences and similarities are reflected in the films of the region, covering topics such as cultural norms, the role of women, freedom of expression, and other significant social issues. By analyzing key films, students will gain insight into the diverse experiences and complexities of life across the Arab world.
TIDE 1128
For the Love of New Orleans: Compassion in Action through Art, Medicine, and Community Care
(1)
Tulane and New Orleans are both famous for their community-centered engagements, but what does “community” really mean? Why is it so important to Tulane and to the city of New Orleans? How can each of us support our community, and why does it matter in the end? This course will explore these questions by introducing you to the basic skills of compassion and care for the community.
This course invites you to engage with these questions by introducing the basic skills of compassion and care for the community. You’ll connect with nonprofit organizations and initiatives, visit nursing homes, explore music therapy programs for children and adults, discover the Louisiana Endowment for the Humanities’ community projects, and step into the unique world of the Museum of Death—an institution dedicated to making people happier.
Through active engagement with the city’s colorful neighborhoods and diverse cultural spaces, alongside readings and discussions on compassion and care, you’ll gain a deeper understanding of what it means to serve and support a community. This immersive learning experience will challenge you to see, listen, and feel as you learn, showing that education is not just about studying and assignments—it’s about embracing experiences that shape who we are, how we connect with others, and what truly matters.
And along the way, you’ll get a good dose of life—and some of the best sips of NOLA coffee!
TIDE 1145
Committed to Cultural Diversit
(1)
In 2016, Tulane University President Mike Fitts established the Race Commission composed of students, staff, faculty, and board members to address issues related to campus diversity. Join this TIDES course as an early step in becoming a student leader committed to this and other diversity initiatives at Tulane. You will learn about the array of programs offered by the Office of Multicultural Affairs. Activities will include academic and social events that bring together TIDES students and members of various student organizations involved in promoting intercultural exchange and understanding. We invite you to become a part of this group of change-makers.
TIDE 1165
Blurring Lines Tulane & NOLA
(1)
Congratulations - you’re officially a Tulane student! As part of the Green Wave, you’ll be living both on the St. Charles campus and in a city whose future is as exciting and complicated as its past. In, “In” or “Of” New Orleans, students will have multiple opportunities to blur the lines between Tulane University and New Orleans, Louisiana while considering their own social identities as a member of these two communities. Through readings, guest speakers, as well as explorations of current events, festivals, and cuisine, this course will make clear what it means to be “in” AND “of” New Orleans.
TIDE 1185
Innov in Chemical Engineering
(1)
This course will introduce students to the modern approaches chemical engineers employ to solve real-world problems. Topics will emphasize engineering design and innovation. Students will learn through relevant readings, discussions, and guest lectures from leaders in the field. Fieldtrips to the NASA Michoud, Assembly Facility, Aquarium of the Americans, a local brewery, and the Tulane Maker Space will expose students to real-world applications.
TIDE 1190
Introduction to Yoga
(1)
TIDE 1206
Sports Head Injuries and Concussions
(1)
Sport-related concussion (SRC) in professional, college, and youth athletes has received more attention in the media over the last decade. Although national attention to this topic began 20 years ago with the publication of Omalu et al.’s landmark 2005 paper (“Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy in a National Football League Player” in the journal Neurosurgery), clinical neuropsychologists have been leading clinical and scientific advancements in the area of SRC for the past 30 years. The field of clinical neuropsychology has been involved in the development, implementation, and evaluation of protocols for managing SRC and determining when an athlete has recovered and is ready to return to play. Over the past decade, research on SRC has exploded with hundreds of studies relating to the neurobiology of the injury, biomechanics, epidemiology, risk factors for slow recovery or poor outcome, and methods for improving assessment, treatment, and rehabilitation services for athletes. The breadth and depth of these research efforts likely will result in better health outcomes for future athletes. The primary goal of this Tulane InterDisciplinary Experience Seminar is to introduce first year students to the study of SRC. Students will be expected to read, analyze, present, and discuss peer-reviewed empirical journal articles on this topic.
TIDE 1210
Art Meets Physics
(1)
Art (in its broadest sense, including visual arts, literature, and various types of performance) is meeting science all around us. These interactions go well beyond the use of science as raw material by artists. The advancements in science lead to dramatic changes in our perception of the world clearly reflected in artists’ creations. Just as religious and mythological sources had influenced art before and during the Renaissance, artists are now being moved by the need to capture the complexities and mysteries of the physical universe. In many ways, science and art are profoundly similar. The best of each rises up from the depths of human creativity, in both the arts and science there’s the need for inspiration and hard work, the willingness to experiment and be brave, and the conviction that you are searching for or creating work that says something meaningful about the world or nature. In this course, we will discuss the mutual influence of arts and science (particularly physics) using examples from different art forms and historic periods. The course includes trips to New Orleans Museum of Arts and Laser Interferometer Gravitational Wave Observatory (LIGO-Livingston).
TIDE 1224
The Art of the Modern Archive: From Making Memories to Self-Fashioning
(1)
What is an archive, and how do we make them?From the selfies we take or the ticket stubs we treasure to the cultural institutions we visit, we are surrounded by different means of documenting our past and present for the future. This TIDES course investigates the concept of the archive through a wide array of archival networks available from personal, local, and even global perspectives. Following a brief grounding in the history of collecting artifacts/art as a means to fashion the self or formulate an identity, we will focus on how subsequent archival spaces are created –from the intimate to the expansive, from the tangible to the ephemeral/digital –and the issues at stake when developing the narrative that an archive relays. We will question the voices both resonant and silent in archival practice through guided reading and discussion as well as through visiting speakers and corresponding visits to local institutions to make connections across campus and across the city of New Orleans. Students will be encouraged to consider their own voice in this documentary process as they develop their own personal archive in a capstone project woven through the course.
TIDE 1225
Women in STEM
(1)
This course covers the challenges facing women pursuing degrees and careers in STEM. Many of these challenges are institutionalized barriers that still exist, creating a system in which it is harder for women to thrive in comparison with their male peers. Other minority groups in STEM face many of the same challenges as women, and the additional and different barriers for other underrepresented groups will also be discussed. The course will cover strategies for success in STEM and becoming an ally and advocate for other traditionally marginalized groups in STEM. One credit hour.
TIDE 1230
Latin American Infusion
(1)
TIDE 1235
Memory and Public Space
(1)
In this course, we will come to a better understanding of the articulation of public space in its relationship to history and memory. We will first discuss a number of paradigmatic cases in the battle for the public expression of national, regional, or group trauma in the form of monuments, memorials, or sites of commemoration: the Holocaust memorial in Berlin, the Vietnam memorial in DC, the “Parque de la memoria” in Buenos Aires, and the alternative ways of remembering the totalitarian period in Indonesia. Next, we will focus on these negotiations in the recent history of New Orleans: the marks of Katrina in the city today, the ways New Orleans chooses to remember it, and the controversy about the removal of confederate monuments in the city.
TIDE 1240
Sex/Drugs/Rock'nRoll & Disease
(1)
Over the course of the next year students will develop an understanding of why young adults engage in high-risk health behaviors. During the first semester attention will focus on the social processes thought to underlie young adults' uptake of behavior patterns which expose them to unnecessary health risks. Among the wide range of high risk behaviors to be covered over the course of the year will be drinking, drugging, smoking, eating, speeding, unsafe sex, and other risky choices. Participants will develop an understanding of how one's family, friends and peers come to shape high-risk health behavior patterns. New Orleans provides an excellent vantage point from which to scientifically explore a culture in which exhibiting high risk health behavior patterns is almost normative. Students will work up epidemiological comparisons between their hometowns and New Orleans based on a wide range of available Internet databases. Students do no direct observations or participation in any high-risk behavior patterns as part of the course.
TIDE 1245
Sports Med: The Team Approach
(1)
The TIDES course Sports Medicine, The Team Approach is a one credit course. This course will explore current topics of sports medicine and how the topics influence practice within the field. Through the guidance of a team physician, students will gain perspective on how sports medicine professionals care for athletes of all ages, with an additional emphasis on collegiate athletes. Students will learn through relevant readings, discussions, and guest lectures fromleaders in the field. Fieldtrips to the Professional Athlete Care Team Clinic, Tulane Institute of Sports Medicine, Tulane Athletic Facilities, and an inside look into a sports game will expose students to the interactions of healthcare professionals involved in the continuum of care for athletes.
TIDE 1250
Visual Arts New Orleans
(1)
This TIDES class was put together by a team of university art professionals with the intention of introducing students to the breadth of the visual arts scene in contemporary New Orleans. The course includes field trips to and visits from artists, curators, critics, collectors, private gallery owners, and public museum professionals, offering a behind-the-scenes look at the vibrant cultural life of the city. Ideally students will come away from the class with an appreciation of the richness of the visual arts in New Orleans, the ability to discuss and write about the visual arts, and some insights into the nuts-and-bolts activities of the individuals and institutions the define the visual arts in New Orleans.
TIDE 1251
Medieval Women Writers and Subversive Literature: Radical Women Past and Present
(1)
This course explores the connections between gender and literary expression with a focus on medieval women writers from late antiquity to the fifteenth century. We will examine the social, cultural, and literary patterns linking the lives of medieval women writers with their works. Medieval women writers tend to express different attitudes and concerns than those associated with medieval European literature and culture, nevertheless, their attitudes and concerns parallel ideologies expressed by modern women writers. The course aims to introduce medieval women writers by juxtaposing their medieval texts with modern texts written by contemporary women that express similar themes in a more contemporary setting. Some of these themes are art and freedom, importance of community building miracles, prophecies, and body politics. We will discuss the ways these themes have changed from medieval times to the present and the ways in which women continue to face similar struggles. The medieval women writers include:Marie de France, Hildegard of Bingen, and Catherine of Siena; the modern women include the visionary girls in Garabandal and Ana Castillo. Ana Castillo, in particular uses the stories of medieval women writers and rewrites them for a contemporary US Latina audience.
TIDE 1255
Creative Writing and New Orleans Literature
(1)
Explore New Orleans through sampling its literature while developing your creative writing skills.  We will read selections from various genres of New Orleans literature as well as works about the craft of writing, and spend time inside and outside of class on our own creative writing pursuits.  We’ll discuss where writers lived and wrote in the French Quarter, attend readings together, and learn about the craft of writing from New Orleans authors.  These activities, along with hearing each other’s pieces read aloud, will help us discover how literature can illuminate a city.  Discover the literary imagination of New Orleans, and begin to experience your time at Tulane as “a little piece of eternity dropped into your hands” (Tennessee Williams).
TIDE 1265
Indian Tribes on the Bayou
(1)
Want to explore the wilds of Louisiana outside of New Orleans? Try some alligator meat, shrimp caught fresh from the sea or, in general, explore another side of Louisiana's rich cultural heritage- then this class is for you! The far-reaching impact of Native American Tribes of the lower Mississippi Valley on shaping Louisiana history is among the least explored subjects among the otherwise well-documented rich history of Louisiana. Recent and ongoing research shows that without the “Petit Nations’”, as some of the Tribes were called, the history of this region would have been quite different. This course offers students the rare opportunity to participate in on-going, important research that entails working directly with Tribal members. In addition, students will have the opportunity to take a trip conducted by Tribal members down the bayous as they give a tour of their ancestral lands as well as explore other areas of Louisiana outside of New Orleans while also tasting some of the food native to Louisiana. An experience not to be missed!
TIDE 1275
Hullabaloo Excell at Tulane
(1)
“A Helluva Hullabaloo: Learning How to #BeExcellent at Tulane” introduces students to developing life skills that will be useful not only in college, but also will help prepare them for the “real-world.” The broad-reaching goal of this TIDES course is to offer students the opportunity to gain valuable skills and lessons that can be used to succeed during their career at Tulane.
TIDE 1285
Crafting & Comm in New Orleans
(1)
Ever wondered about the distinction between arts and crafts, why crafting is popular, or how many beads are in a Mardi Gras Indian costume? Whether you do crafts, buy them, use needle and thread, hammer and nails, or scissors and glue, you are involved in crafting. We’ll learn about crafting as a hobby and a profession and look at local craft culture in New Orleans. We’ll explore assorted craft practices and communities, through creative workshops, guest speakers, and fieldtrips to local craft centers or markets. No experience necessary – but if you’ve ever wanted to learn a craft, this is your opportunity!
TIDE 1295
Inside the Ivory Tower
(1)
TIDE 1305
Different Pictures-New Orleans
(1)
This TIDES course we will address the question, "What constitutes the heart and soul of New Orleans?" The most common answers are, great restaurants, Mardi Gras, Jazz Fest, French Quarter Festival, Voodoo, Ghosts, the Blue Dog, and of course, the Saints. 

Throughout the semester, we will study and discuss the city's cultural fabric from a folkloric, historical, artistic, literary, and cinematographic point of view. Students will assess the different facets and components that build our great city and contribute to its unique culture through the analysis of assigned text and film material, the participation in class discussions, team presentations, and field trips, as well as in the format of a reflective final paper.
TIDE 1315
Making New Orleans
(1)
TIDE 1317
Sports as a Leadership Model
(1)
This course uses a sports lens to introduce Tulane students to what character traits have made sports figures, coaches, teams, and organizations successful as well as aided in turning sports from recreational fun to a multi-billion-dollar global industry juggernaut. This class will introduce students to several different valuable life skills and lessons to aid them in them in their academic endeavors and professional journey. The goal of this class is to see what transferable skills those in the world of sports use in their respective venues to help them become success stories and pass those qualities along to you to aid you in achieving success in life during and after Tulane.
TIDE 1325
Organizing Society
(1)
This course will explore how various societies, past and present, have been organized.  From small tribal societies that practice communism to large industrial societies that foment capitalism, the mechanisms by which society is organized are intentional and deliberate.  Anthropological, sociological, political, economic, and historical perspectives will be considered throughout the course.  Special attention will be given to how inequality manifests itself within societies.  This course will require students to select the societies we will study and to actively participate in researching these societies.  The course will culminate in student groups designing a society according to goals and outcomes they set by applying the knowledge they have gained over the course of the semester.
TIDE 1335
Art On and From the Margins: Questions of Race, Class, and Gender
(1)
This course investigates practices in New Orleans art that interrogate dominant systems of representation. It examines how artists in New Orleans rely on and devise strategies that confront, appropriate, subvert, and queer the meanings, aims, and experiences of conventional art practices. These may include shifts in the content of a work and its audience to methods by which it is produces, its formal properties, and its reception. The focus of the class will include analyses of practices of documentation, re-appropriation, abstraction, mining the archive, and camp (among others). Directly connected to questions of marginalization of certain artistic voice and art practices are—of course—inquiries into whether attempts to dislodge and reconfigure dominant systems results merely in the consumption of those works and their integration into larger system or whether they have the potential to destabilize those systems. The class will include a number of talks by New Orleans artists, visits to New Orleans museums and other art spaces.
TIDE 1345
Politics of the Past: Monuments and Social Conflict from the Ancient World to Modern New Orleans
(1)
This course addresses the impact of monuments, historical and archaeological sites, and cultural heritage management on local communities and the ethical and political dimensions of ongoing conservation, museum, and research projects. Recent protests over cultural heritage sites in places like Mexico, Turkey, and Jerusalem, the dramatic destruction of monuments at the hands of ISIS in Syria, and our own domestic debates about the Confederate monuments that dot many American cities have shown the potential for monuments to be at the center of complex political, ethnic, and religious controversies or to even become a sites of conflict and violence.  The course will explore the use and abuse of material culture as a means of underpinning modern claims of nation and statehood and cultural superiority. At the same time, debates over monuments and historical sites provide a unique opportunity to give a voice to groups that fall outside of traditional historical sources, and it can provide a powerful means of opening dialogue about the past. Throughout the course, we will discuss the roles and responsibilities of governments, international organizations, museums, auction houses and galleries, private collectors, and tourism in the exploitation, preservation, and presentation of monuments and material culture. Students will put the historical perspectives of the course into practice by a series of field trips to public and private museums and historical sites in and around New Orleans, and they will address how our own contemporary debates might be informed by wider attention to historical and global issues of cultural heritage management.
TIDE 1355
Art, Place, and Community in New Orleans
(1)
This 1-credit TIDES course introduces students to college study, discussion, and research through the topic of art, public space, and community in New Orleans. We will look at histories of placemaking, the role of monuments in public space, and art that has emerged out of engagement with local communities. In the course Art, Place, & Community in New Orleans, students will learn about historical and contemporary New Orleans through its art in public spaces, historical monuments and community-based art. We will think about the history of art in public spaces of New Orleans, grapple with debates about the legacy of historical monuments; and ask how art plays a role in the history and future of New Orleans, as a geographical place and as a constellation of communities. This TIDES Course is ideal for students considering majors or minors in art history, history, or urban studies.
TIDE 1365
@InstaNola: Curating Your Digital Self
(1)
@InstaNola: Curating Your Digital Self is a one credit TIDES course that looks at our relationship to social media, both real and projected, set to a New Orleans backdrop. The term “curation” has migrated from the physical world of art to the digital domain as we increasingly apply it in the context of our online activities. The images, songs, stories, locations, and people we interact with online shape the way we want the world to view us. But what happens if our digital self and physical self don’t align? We will look at our own relationships to social media, hear from local social media influencers, and visit some of New Orleans’ most ‘grammed spots all towards the question: How do we see the world, and how do we want others to see us?
TIDE 1375
Gateway to the Americas: The Roots & Routes of Latinx New Orleans
(1)
For much of the twentieth century an enormous, iron sign spanned Canal Street celebrating New Orleans as the “Gateway to the Americas.” In recent years politicians have labored to swing this gate shut, imploring America to build a wall instead. Yet this open gate has made New Orleans the unique culture it is today. This TIDE approaches current immigration debates from a local perspective, examining New Orleans and Tulane University as vibrant sites of intercultural intellectual, economic and social collaboration and exchange with Latin America and more specifically, Central America. Readings and activities will complicate the rhetoric of “invasion”—which reduces immigration to one-way street—by acknowledging the multidirectional movement of people, goods, ideas and cultures to and from New Orleans and Tulane across the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. 

Toward this, we will examing policy, literature, art, film and food as they are affected by and effect the formation of culture and identity. You, as a student, are part of this and we will engage your American origins as well, toward developing an empathetic understanding of the immigrant experience and the responsibilities of citizenship. Finally, we will explore how students can be more involved in struggles for social justice and human rights at Tulane and beyond: A) Discussing the skills and experience needed for careers in advocacy, activism, social work, education, immigration law, public health and other professions related to the Latinx community that your education here can provide; and B) Examining opportunities for volunteer work, service learning and internships with organizations that serve New Orleans’ Latinx and immigrant communities while you are here. Toward these objectives, we will  engages many voices across the New Orleans and Tulane communities, inviting activists, artists, and professionals into the classroom and venturing out of the classroom to experience people, places and life in New Orleans beyond our campus.
TIDE 1385
Cultivating Connection
(1)
This one-credit course synthesizes theatre acting techniques and yoga to help students cultivate more presence and connection in their daily lives.  The focus will be on calming the nervous system, developing adaptability, and learning to accurately read behavior and emotions in oneself and others.
TIDE 1390
Silver Screen Shakespeare
(1)
TIDE 1405
New Orleans on Stage and Screen
(1)
We will explore how the legend of New Orleans was created and reinforced by popular representation in theatre and film works from the 19th century through today. Students will investigate various signifiers of New Orleans through time, watching their rise (and sometimes fall) through performance pieces. We will explore home-grown myth-making as well as visions provided by outsiders, and also get out into the city itself, seeing what truth might lie within the narrative reductions of New Orleans that occupied audiences for the last two centuries.
TIDE 1415
FEMtech: Gender and Technology Design
(1)
Since the industrial era, analog, digital, and medical products have been produced with the claim that certain technologies make women’s lives easier. This course examines the role that FEMtech plays in women’s lives and the role that product design plays in shaping discourse around women’s relationship with technology. Students will also explore the recent rise of the FEMtech app technology, a projected $120 billion-dollar industry. Students will have the opportunity to learn about the technology and start-up industries from technology leaders in New Orleans. Students will use feminist technology design strategies to design and pitch a FEMtech product.
TIDE 1425
The Archaeology of Mardi Gras
(1)
From Indiana Jones to Lara Croft to the guy in the “Ancient Aliens” meme, archaeologists are standard in pop-culture. But what do they actually do? In this course, we will explore the practice of archaeology through the lens of the “greatest free show on earth:” Mardi Gras in New Orleans. Archaeology is the study of humans through our material culture, the stuff we leave behind, and Mardi Gras brings plenty of stuff for us to examine. Working together each week, the class will complete readings, field trips, and hands-on projects, learning how to investigate Mardi Gras as an archaeological phenomenon. By the end of the semester, you will know more about New Orleans and its central tradition, and I promise, you will never look at a strand of beads the same way again.
TIDE 1430
Writing In New Orleans
(1)
A student adopts and inhabits a new city, becoming native.  Keep a journal of New Orleans.  Write it down!  Take moments, ideas to reflect the experience among peers living in the Crescent City.  Write letters, poems, and lyrics, discussed during workshops in class and on excursions in the city.  Become thoughtful...listen, read, write, converse through language. A journal may recollect moments in tranquility (Wordsworth) or may take the form of day-to-day experience (Bosworth). 

During particular classes the student will be asked to write while on a streetcar, in Audubon Park, and on the levee by the Mississippi river.  Students will keep a journal, participate in a writer’s workshop, give a class presentation, and write a research paper.  Participation is a must.  There are no examinations.
TIDE 1435
Ecology, Equality and Migration an Interdisciplinary Perspective Contemporary European Politics
(1)
The interdisciplinary course will examine three main political problems in Europe today; the environmental crisis, social inequality and migration from the Middle East. Prof. Ofengenden will begin with examining the ways of life and accepted thinking that these three problems undermine and challenge including consumerism, individualism, traditionalism, economic rationality, developmentalism, growth, globalization and nationalism. Prof. Ofengenden will survey the history of early challenges to accepted thinking including the challenges to exploitation and privatization of land argued by the thinkers of the Enlightenment (e.g. Rousseau) as well as early critics of industrialism. Prof. Ofengenden will use both literature and thought to show illuminate these critics. Prof. Ofengenden will then move to 20th and 21th European contributions to environmental thought and economic inequality as well as political movement and artistic expressions of both of these trends. These will include Martin Heidegger, Theodore Adorno, Arne Naess, Serge Moscovici, Bruno Latour, Thomas Piketty, Jacques Rancière, David Harvey. Finally this part of the course will look at two contemporary political protest movements the Yellow Vests in France and Extinction rebellion in the UK. It will look into how these movement were formed and the way they have transformed in the discourse around income inequality and environmental crisis in France and the UK. 
The second part of the course lead Prof. Nicosia by will look at the issue of immigration to Europe. After a first survey on the immigration phenomenon starting from the year 2010 through, course  will pass to analyze social and political tensions caused by anxiety and phobias towards the Other, and the way it reshapes geographical spaces and cultural patterns of the hosting countries, with particular attention to the notions of borders (in the cities and the neighborhoods), citizenry (what and how to define a citizen at the margin), new ethics’ parameters (e.g. religion, welfare etc...), and ultimately the ideas of nation, nationality and nationalism. The second part of the course will be dedicated on the voices of the migrants and their representation through the new artistic phenomena related to migration in the Mediterranean countries (Italy, Greece), with particular attention to literature, video, (photography, video installations), cinema, as well as music creations.
TIDE 1445
Arts Around New Orleans (This Ain't Your Momma's Art)
(1)
This course is designed for those interested in exploring the immensely diverse arts scene in New Orleans. The purpose of the course is to introduce students to a variety of art forms. The course includes amazing field trips as well as guest artists in the classroom.  Through readings, classroom discussions, meetings with local artists, reflective writing, and creating your own art project, you will gain a great appreciation for the arts scene in the great city of New Orleans!  How does one give voice to creativity?  Join us to find out!
TIDE 1455
Sports and Culture in Spain: A Sociological Approach
(1)
The syllabus of this course has been programmed from a sociological approach to sport, so that the students can gain an overall view of Spanish culture, of the Spanish way of life, throughout the analysis of geographical, historical, cultural and literary factors in the make-up of the nation in the present-day, and in its diverse manifestations. Additionally, it will examine various aspects of the relationship between sport and Spanish society. The importance of sports goes beyond its obvious political significance. Indeed, sociologists and anthropologists have recently studied the interaction between sports and social and cultural dimensions. Nowadays, there is no doubt about the integrative and unifying strength which sports exhibit. It is a phenomenon that carries out an enormous social impact, interests the majority of the population and is practiced by a large part of the population.

The course begins with a consideration of general theoretical questions on the idiosyncrasy of every culture by comparing U.S. and Spanish cultural trends and stereotypes. After that, it will examine the different cultures within Spain: Castilian, Catalan, Basque and Galician; focusing mainly on language, nationality, and political implications. Following the midterm, we will focus on the analysis of specific sports such as soccer, traditional sports of Spain, basque pelota, the controversial bullfighting and all their different social and political implications.
TIDE 1465
Crafting Your Story
(1)
Compelling storytelling lies at the heart of success across fields. From a business
person pitching a new product to a research scientist vying for a competitive grant, the ability to tell a captivating story gives you an advantage. Storytelling skills serve you when interviewing for internships or jobs, networking, or even just making new friends in college. Whether your ultimate goal is a TED Talk with a million views or just a kickass toast at your best friend’s wedding one day, this class will give you concrete tools to improve your public speaking and storytelling skills. In this experiential class, we will create a supportive environment where you will discover your personal communication style and how to leverage your strengths to gain more confidence in your ability to tell a great story.
TIDE 1475
For the Love of New Orleans: Entering Community Through Service
(1)
Many students have been drawn to Tulane for its heavily touted commitment to community, but what does this mean and look like in actuality and from the perspective of the New Orleans community? This course introduces students to concepts around community engagement at an individual level and at Tulane, the components of ethical service, the dynamics of entering a community that may be new to you, and an introduction to a specific community within New Orleans via service with a partner organization that will engage with the course throughout the semester.
TIDE 1485
Surveillance, Data, & Society
(1)
This seminar examines the historical and contemporary relationships between race, gender, class, and sexuality and modern surveillance practices. Students will be introduced to the interdisciplinary theories of surveillance and data studies such as discipline, control, capitalism, privacy, and counter-surveillance. Students will examine and discuss materials related to enslavement, policing and prisons, reality television, workplace surveillance, domestic violence, reproductive rights, (social) media, travel, big data, and machine learning. Seminar discussions will include cases where patriarchal power and racialized systems were used to promote perceptions of security, fear, exposure, and control. As praxis, students will design and produce a data project that uses strategies such as data collection, management, analysis, and/or visualization. All data skills will be taught in this course and all technical skill-levels are welcome.
TIDE 1500
Irish In New Orleans
(1)
This course introduces students to an unfamiliar part of New Orleans’ history that is as defining to the city’s character as her more familiar Spanish and French past: Irish New Orleans. For many different reasons, Irish immigrants were drawn to Antebellum New Orleans, and they came to this city by the tens of thousands.  Contrary to still prevailing prejudice, the newly arriving Irish immediately set about creating their own communities,several of which we will explore in this course.Strong familial ties denoted these neighborhoods as did their Catholic faith and the extraordinarily beautiful churches these immigrants built to serve their spiritual needs.Life was not easy in New Orleans: frequent epidemics killed people by the tens of thousands.  However, the Irish immigrants successfully carved out lives for themselves that gave the city a permanent Irish flavor which, to this day, is still defined by Irish customs and traditions and inseparable from the colorful, multi-faceted spirit of New Orleans.
TIDE 1515
Voices of the future: Student & Youth Activism
(1)
This course explores youth activism from the “angry decades” (60s &70s) to “age of rage” (present) and emphasizes South Louisiana as a hub for youth activism. From Ruby Bridges’ and the “McDonough Three’s” roles in the integration of New Orleans schools in 1960 to Louisiana youth playing critical roles in the current push for climate justice,  youth activists illuminate themselves as political actors who seek to create an equitable world. Beyond discussions of Louisiana youth, this course invites students to learn about the ways student activists  from colleges all over the United States emerged as change agents and shifted the state of higher education.  With the influx of youth activists and social movements comes the development of distinct fields of inquiry through which scholars analyze youth activists’ experiences and motivations. As the course centers youth voices, we will analyze speeches and written work (e.g., statements, petitions, credos) of activists and place their ideas in conversation with youth and movement studies scholarship, popular texts, and media about the ways youth insert themselves in social justice efforts. While investigating the ways students participate in and construct movements, we will also examine how they influence policy change. As we learn,  we will consider our roles in resistance  work on local, national, and global levels and how putting our knowledge into practice can help create the world(s) we imagine.
TIDE 1525
Kindness in Action: Emotionally Intelligent Leadership
(1)
Over the course of the academic semester, this course focuses on developing an interdisciplinary understanding of the theories and practices of emotional intelligence as it applies to your transition and success as a first-year student at Tulane. As a TIDES member, you will actively study the theories that emerge from a variety of fields and reflect on their practical, social, and ethical assumptions as well as on their implications in a variety of settings. Through readings, classroom discussions, and episodes of Apple TV’s Ted Lasso, you will gain a greater appreciation for the issues that affect all of us as human beings in relationship with each other.

This course is designed around the three central themes of emotionally intelligent leadership: self, others, context. Each theme will be addressed individually but the course will also examine the interdependence between the three.  Course sessions will be dynamic and include a variety of experiential learning, group participation, guest speakers, and activities designed to stimulate thinking and build our capacity and efficacy for affecting change in our own lives and within our community.
TIDE 1535
Delta Clay - Environment & Art
(1)
New Orleans sits at the edge of the continent on layers of alluvial clays and sand, on a delta barely 5000 years old. The low elevation and shifting nature of the ground has influenced the growth and construction of the city, and provided a resource of clay for building and ceramic art. This class will explore the ground under our feet, examining the makeup of the geology of our city, the river that formed it and some of the ways geography and geology has influenced the growth and character of its neighborhoods. As climate change magnifies the forces that shaped the delta, the natural processes of flooding, erosion and subsidence are accelerating with serious consequences for the New Orleans and South Louisiana.
Our environmental exploration will take us out to find and dig local clay, prospecting at the Studio in the Woods and the Carrolton river bank at the “Fly”, experiencing the land in a direct way. The clay we dig will be refined in the ceramics studio and used it to make vessels and other botanical forms inspired by the historic enterprise of Newcomb Pottery. Founded within the Newcomb Art Department in 1896, the Newcomb Pottery enterprise utilized local clays and employed talented women graduates from the Art department, developing unique and beautifully crafted forms that emphasized designs drawn from indigenous plants. Special tours of the Newcomb Art Museum’s collection of the historic pottery will provide models for our own works, made from the clays we dig and fired in the modern kilns of the Newcomb Art Department.
TIDE 1545
Law & Order
(1)
In Henry VI, Shakespeare wrote, “The first thing we do, let’s kill all the lawyers;” however, “all the lawyers” have avoided being killed since that line was written.  Why?  From the largest corporate mergers to simple adoptions, and from public policy to the enactment of criminal laws, the need for lawyers is increasing because the law is a central part of our daily lives and the bedrock of a free society.  Although the press might occasionally indicate otherwise, lawyers are members of a profession and they get respect, but is being a lawyer really like the popular portrayals on television shows such as Law and Order or in a John Grisham novel?  This class will help you explore how one becomes a lawyer and what it is like to be a lawyer.
TIDE 1555
The Entrepreneurial Landscape of New Orleans and How the City’s Diverse Culture Influences It
(1)
In this course, students will be given a behind the scenes look at the entrepreneurial ecosystem in New Orleans –the lessons learned from Hurricane Katrina recovery efforts and what needs to happen to have a vibrant startup community that is equitable, accessible, and collaborative.From local entrepreneurs to community partners to support organizations to investors and more, this course will bring together some of the most important stakeholders in the New Orleans entrepreneurial ecosystem. We will also leverage our data from the Greater New Orleans Startup Report, hearing from our very own Lepage Center to present an in-depth overview of the current state of the early stage business economy in New Orleans.
TIDE 1615
Positive Psychology and Successful Leadership
(1)
This course will introduce students to research, theories, and practices central to the field of applied positive psychology and the emerging subfield of positive leadership for the purposes of (a) increasing personal and interpersonal well-being and (b) developing positive leadership skills which can be applied within university, business, organizational, civic, and government spheres.

Positive psychology is a relatively new field which asks questions such as: What can scientific research tell us about practices and perspectives that lead to a happier life? What can psychology do to help ordinary people to thrive and flourish? Which practices lead to greater well-being, fulfillment, and life satisfaction? Positive psychology engages such questions by utilizing scientific research methods to identify practices which lead to greater well-being (including positive emotions, engagement, relationships, meaning, and accomplishment). Positive psychologists maintain that (1) flourishing requires more than curing pathology; (2) flourishing requires tapping human strengths and positive capacities; and (3) scientific research methods can help us to identify and refine strategies for flourishing. Topics in positive psychology include positive emotions, hedonic misprediction and adaptation, character strengths, purpose, gratitude, kindness, meditation, nurturing social relationships, exercise, and more.

Positive leadership studies focus on evidence-based approaches to successful leadership and draw on research at the intersection of positive psychology, leadership studies and organizational studies. Topics in positive leadership studies include approaches to well-being, strengths, leadership styles, problem solving (appreciative inquiry vs. pathologizing inquiry), meaning, intrinsic vs. extrinsic value, effective communication, and cultivating and maintaining positive relationships.

This course will provide students with a theoretical and practical introduction to applied positive psychology with a focus on positive leadership. Students will engage in experiential homework in which they will apply strategies for enhancing their own well-being -- and for positively impacting their own leadership initiatives. This course will also expose students to local wellness resources at Tulane and will include a walking tour of the French Quarter exploring New Orleans architecture, history, culture, and cuisine.
TIDE 1680
Hot Topics in Sports Law
(1)
This course will explore the authority of commissioners as well as the rights and responsibilities of athletes and others in professional sports leagues and college sports. Students will explore disciplinary measures relating to on and off-field misconduct, performance enhancing and recreational drug use, and speech, as well as the impact of sports gambling, discrimination, and other issues with an emphasis on current events. Students will learn about the source and scope of a commissioner’s power, player rights when faced with disciplinary action, league collective bargaining agreement rules, and the types of punishments available. Students will be asked to think critically about the scope of a commissioner’s power in specific cases, to consider desired outcomes from multiple perspectives, and to discuss the propriety of various rules governing player, coach, owner, and fan conduct. Students will gain a basic understanding of the application of law to professional and college sports industries. Students will also learn the essential tenets of negotiation applied in a sports setting and engage in a mock negotiation.
TIDE 1700
Myth&Real Nola Food/Drnk
(1)
As the concept of local foodways becomes entrenched in the growing “foodie” culture of the United States, local food and local dishes become an ever more important marker of place. Whether justified or not, Creole and Cajun food and, of course, the ubiquitous Cocktail, are perceived by many as synonymous with New Orleans. In this course, we will explore the myths and realities of these three key concepts as they apply to food and drink in New Orleans.
TIDE 1713
Storytelling with Data – How Healthy Are We?
(1)
Storytelling through data visualization can dramatically enhance our ability to think about the meaning within data. The connection between vision and cognition is powerful. In this course we will explore the fundamentals of discovering and presenting the story that lies within the data that we wish to tell. We will do this in the context of health care and public health in the United States. Along the way we will explore some common data sets about health care and public health, and we will learn to recognize the strengths and shortcomings of current data visualizations we see in academic settings and the mainstream and social media.
TIDE 1742
Shakespeare in New Orleans
(1)
TIDE 1810
Non-Profits & Katrina
(1)
TIDE 1880
Martial Arts For Perform
(1)
TIDE 1890
Service Learning
(0-1)
Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
TIDE 1891
Service Learning
(0-1)
Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
TIDE 1892
Service Learning
(0-1)
Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
TIDE 1893
Service learning
(0-1)
Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
TIDE 1894
Service Learning
(0-1)
Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
TIDE 1895
Service Learning
(0-1)
Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
TIDE 1896
Service Learning
(0-1)
Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
TIDE 1897
Service Learning
(0-1)
Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
TIDE 1898
Service Learning
(0-1)
Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
TIDE 1899
Service Learning
(0-1)
Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
TIDE 1911
Ocean Health/Human Health
(1)
The United Nations designated this decade (2021-2030) as the Decade of Ocean
Science for Sustainable Development to highlight the needs and mechanisms to reverse the decline in ocean health. This course will focus on the most pressing issues that intersect ocean health, human health, and local/global economics. We will explore, discuss, and debate the science and policies behind what led us to
our current situation and what can possibly be done as the international community moves forward.
TIDE 1915
Sicilian Jazz:Ital Cult NOLA
(1)
The Italian Culture in New Orleans" will focus on different facets and components of the Italians in the Crescent city. Special consideration will be given to the discussion of the following topics: New Orleans and the culture of the Italian emigrants, traditions, cuisine, music, fiction and movie rendering of the Italian emigration.
TIDE 1925
Natural History of Louisiana
(1)
TIDE 1950
Salsa!
(1)
TIDE 1970
Songwriting For Audience
(1)
TIDE 1975
Visual Pleasure & Photography in NOLA
(1)
The class is about visual pleasure and aesthetic beauty. What makes a picture or painting beautiful? We will examine this question through several disciplines including philosophy, art history and experiential artistic practice. We will consult short readings of the classics answer to this question (e.g. Plato, Kant, Schiller, Delacroix, Hegel, Marx, Heidegger, Freud, Vygotsky, Foucault, Gombrich, Susanne Langer, John Berger, Elaine Scarry, Boris Groys, Clement Greenberg, Laura Malvie) At the same time we will also look at several distinct periods and ask what was beauty at these specific times. I have chosen four such times. The first period is the Northern Renaissance (e.g. Van Eyck, Bosch, Dürer, Bruegel) the second the Baroque (e.g. Velázquez, Rembrandt), the third the impressionists (e.g. Manet, Degas, Cassatt, Monet, Renoir, Toulouse-Lautrec) the expressionists (Franz Marc, Ernst Ludwig Kirchner) and fourth 20th century art photography. We will examine various concerns that we have with the beautiful. For example, the concern that the love of beauty is at best an evasion from the problems of social reality, at worst a way of legitimizing the status of the rich and powerful. That it is merely a marker of social class (e.g. Bourdieu). That beauty is frivolous, decadent, distracting, and unserious. That there is nothing to describe or to share or give account to this most subjective experience. We will attempt to answer this question by looking to both the experience as well as production of beauty as a kind of temporary emancipation from a life-world experience, a lifeworld that is limited by material conditions and social factors. We will also look at beauty as a transformative decentering of the self. We will examine deeply Kant’s idea that true beauty is the free play of imagination and understanding in the mind of the audience and therefore can include any theme of topic.
TIDE 1981
Frames Films & Femmes Fatales
(1)
This course is a critical survey of cinematic works by and about women, with examples drawn from different modes of cinematic expression (mainstream fiction films as well as alternative film and video [including documentaries, experimental, & narrative]) and from different historical periods (from the 1930s to the present). The course deploys feminist approaches to film criticism and applies these approaches to cinematic representations of women. Films illustrating particular genres, as well as feminist and ''women's'' films, are discussed and critiqued. We will consider the role of film in our understandings of sex, gender, and sexuality, as well as race, class, and disability. Through discussions and writing, we will work to discern relevant social, political, ideological, and aesthetic concepts in the media we examine. We will look at contemporary Hollywood and independent cinema, US and some international films by both established and emerging filmmakers.
Corequisite(s):
TIDE 1898
.
TIDE 1982
Contemporary Women Writers
(1)
TIDE 1983
Us vs. Them
(1)
Black vs. White. Citizen vs. Immigrant. Transgender vs. Cisgender. Christian vs. Muslim. Gay vs. Straight. The list goes on. In recent years, the United States has become increasingly polarized. The most interesting and exciting aspects of human diversity are set against one another, in rigid opposing binaries. Through interactive workshops, cultural trips, discussions of texts and films, writing reflections, and guest speakers, this seminar will serve as an incubator for students from diverse backgrounds to develop their understanding of the complexities of cultures, identities, and power dynamics. We will simultaneously explore everyday practices for world building beyond "Us. Vs. Them."
TIDE 1984
Identity, Power & Comm Engage
(1)
TIDE 1985
Women Leading New Orleans
(1)
From non-profit organizations to government, from social movements to Mardi Gras, from restaurants to boardrooms, women have led New Orleans. Using an intersectional feminist lens, this course will explore how the personal, the organizational, and the institutional intersect to shape how women practice leadership. Students will be introduced to theories and research that address gender and leadership while focusing on historical and contemporary examples of women practicing leadership in New Orleans. The course will begin with a brief introduction to a sociological perspective on gender and intersectionality - foundational concepts of the course - and move into discussions of how and why women lead, as well as barriers they encounter to leadership. Guest speakers, field trips, and writing assignments will ask students to think broadly, but also analytically, about what leadership means, as well as about how identities and institutions shape the experience of leadership.
TIDR 1014
Cultivate Residence Self Care
(1)
Health in college is so much more than avoiding pizza every night and occasionally going to the gym. Health is multifaceted and is pivotal to your ability to thrive during the next four years. This course will examine the most relevant health topics for college students from a public health perspective, integrating theories and practices relevant to your life. In addition, this course seeks to cultivate leadership skills as an element of being healthy and successful in college.
TIDR 1015
Cultivate Inner Changemaker
(1)
Cultivate your Inner Changemaker is devoted to exploring the skills, strategies, and ideas of effective social change advocates in the 21st century. Students will be learning about some of the essential skills of effective changemakers, including leadership, optimism, resilience, risk-taking, luck, relationship building, conflict resolution, creativity, and innovation. Throughout the course, students will practice these skills, both in class and through assignments.
Corequisite(s):
TIDR 1890
.
TIDR 1016
Crossroads of Culture: New Orleans’ Global Identity in Local Context
(1)
In this course we will delve into the rich tapestry of New Orleans' cultural geography and its profound multicultural existence. Students will explore the historical roots and global influences that have shaped the city's unique identity. Through engaging lectures, seminar discussions, and experiential learning, students will develop a nuanced understanding of the city's multicultural history and its ongoing impact on contemporary society. Students will gain an appreciation for the global influences in New Orleans' music, cuisine, environment, and traditions while addressing social justice issues rooted in the city's unique history. The course aims to foster cultural competence, inclusivity, global awareness, civic engagement, and leadership skills, providing students with the tools to navigate an increasingly interconnected world.
TIDR 1018
Case Studies in Leadership
(1)
This 1-credit course will utilize a variety of cases which highlight a real-life example of a challenge in leadership. Fields covered will include business, politics, non-profit work, and social movements - all highlighting decision making in New Orleans following Hurricane Katrina. In most class periods, you will be asked to “inhabit” the case and take up the dilemma of its protagonist. I may assign class members roles to prepare and play in the class discussion spontaneously or in advance. None of the cases have right answers, although we may have an epilogue that tells what actually happened (the historical outcome). You are asked to wrestle with the problem as if it were your own and bring your experience and classroom learning from Tulane University and elsewhere to bear on the questions. The Harvard Business School originated and developed the phenomenon of the teaching case to simulate business experience in novices, to create a concrete vehicle for applying abstract theories to real-world situations, and to engender engaged classroom discussion while fostering critical thinking skills as students were forced to wrestle with actual business dilemmas that had no easy answer. It is no accident that professional schools were drawn to case teaching—Law, for obvious reasons—but also schools of public affairs and public health whose missions are to utilize the best thinking of the disciplines to prepare students for careers as practitioners. Cases marry learning about real world policy and organizational problems with critical thinking, abstract reasoning, and theorizing valued in all academic disciplines. In particular, this course will offer you a chance to get to know New Orleans as a resilient city with monumental challenges left to tackle.
TIDR 1043
LGBTQ+ New Orleans
(1)
This seminar explores LGBTQ+ life in New Orleans from an interdisciplinary perspective. It focuses on the LGBTQ+ history of the city, narratives of personal
experiences, cultural representations and expressions, and current research on discrimination and on social and health programs.
TIDR 1090
Who Dat, Fan Up & Geaux
(1)
Founded in 1718, the city of New Orleans has a long and rich history with sports. From the rise of social class-driven sports such as rowing and billiards to the New Orleans Saints’ heroic revival of the city post-Hurricane Katrina, sports has been as integral to the area as food, music, and Mardi Gras. Sports have made an enduring impact on the social world in which we all live. It is a taken for granted aspect of our everyday lives – whether that entails watching “Sportscenter” or noticing that every single major newspaper contains a “Sports” section that is as long if not longer than any other section. Yet there is more to sport than just what we see on a daily basis. In this course, we will explore general sports-related topics and examine actual case studies related to New Orleans’ sports scene. More than simply ‘talking sports,’ students will study issues from political, economic and social viewpoints and also gain an understanding of the rich sports heritage found here in New Orleans. Readings and discussions, field trips, and guest speakers will aid students to understand both historical accounts and modern-day subjects associated with sports such as governmental involvement, public financing, and community development. Students will participate in a mandatory service learning component with TBD. Their after-school programs promote development in boys and girls through activities that build character, cultivate new skills, and create a sense of belonging – in this case a place where kids can express themselves, play together and get fit. By participating in activities with NFL Youth Education Town students will deepen their understanding of the political, economic, and social ramifications of sports on a local level by making correlations to sports and its impacts on the city’s youth, infrastructure, civic pride, crime reduction efforts, poverty eradication, and other areas, and gain an awareness of their role as a citizen in the city of New Orleans.
TIDR 1117
N. O. Performance Culture
(1)
There will be two primary goals in this course. The first will involve introducing students to New Orleans’s history, culture, and literature. The second will entail an interdisciplinary introduction to a wide array of influences with the effort of showing how New Orleans’s turbulent history of changing possession, immigration, and migration have contributed to a “performance” of various versions of “New Orleansness.” The course will focus specifically on the presence of French, Spanish, African, and a brief overview of the various immigrant communities in the city’s history and the various ways in which these groups have performed their own version of New Orleans for the city itself, the United States, and the world. In addition, the students will use the maps found in Unfathomable City: A New Orleans Atlas to look at how maps are constructions of authenticity.
TIDR 1185
Innovation in Chemical Engineering
(1)
This course will introduce students to the modern approaches chemical engineers employ to solve real world problems. Topics will emphasize engineering design and innovation. Students will learn through relevant readings, discussions, and guest lectures from leaders in the field. We will also take two field trips to introduce students to the roles of engineering in New Orleans.
TIDR 1225
Women in STEM
(1)
This course covers the challenges facing women pursuing degrees and careers in STEM. Many of these challenges are institutionalized barriers that still exist, creating a system in which it is harder for women to thrive in comparison with their male peers. Other minority groups in STEM face many of the same challenges as women, and the additional and different barriers for other underrepresented groups will also be discussed. The course will cover strategies for success in STEM and becoming an ally and advocate for other traditionally marginalized groups in STEM.
TIDR 1265
Indian Tribes on the Bayou
(1)
Want to explore the wilds of Louisiana outside of New Orleans? Try some alligator meat, shrimp caught fresh from the sea or, in general, explore another side of Louisiana's rich cultural heritage- then this class is for you! The far-reaching impact of Native American Tribes of the lower Mississippi Valley on shaping Louisiana history is among the least explored subjects among the otherwise well-documented rich history of Louisiana. Recent and ongoing research shows that without the “Petit Nations’”, as some of the Tribes were called, the history of this region would have been quite different. This course offers students the rare opportunity to participate in on-going, important research that entails working directly with Tribal members. In addition, students will have the opportunity to take a trip conducted by Tribal members down the bayous as they give a tour of their ancestral lands as well as explore other areas of Louisiana outside of New Orleans while also tasting some of the food native to Louisiana. An experience not to be missed!
TIDR 1317
Sports as a Leadership Model
(1)
This course uses a sports lens to introduce Tulane students to what character traits have made sports figures, coaches, teams, and organizations successful as well as aided in turning sports from recreational fun to a multi-billion-dollar global industry juggernaut. This class will introduce students to several different valuable life skills and lessons to aid them in them in their academic endeavors and professional journey. The goal of this class is to see what transferable skills those in the world of sports use in their respective venues to help them become success stories and pass those qualities along to you to aid you in achieving success in life during and after Tulane.
TIDR 1415
FEMtech: Gender and Technology
(1)
Since the industrial era, analog, digital, and medical products have been produced with the claim that certain technologies make women’s lives easier. This course examines the role that FEMtech plays in women’s lives and the role that product design plays in shaping discourse around women’s relationship with technology. Students will also explore the recent rise of the FEMtech app technology, a projected $120 billion-dollar industry. Students will have the opportunity to learn about the technology and start-up industries from technology leaders in New Orleans. Students will use feminist technology design strategies to design and pitch a FEMtech product.
TIDR 1500
The Entrepreneurial Landscape of New Orleans and How the City’s Diverse Culture Influences It
(1)
In this course, students will be given a behind the scenes look at the entrepreneurial ecosystem in New Orleans –the lessons learned from Hurricane Katrina recovery efforts and what needs to happen to have a vibrant startup community that is equitable, accessible, and collaborative.From local entrepreneurs to community partners to support organizations to investors and more, this course will bring together some of the most important stakeholders in the New Orleans entrepreneurial ecosystem. We will also leverage our data from the Greater New Orleans Startup Report, hearing from our very own Lepage Center to present an in-depth overview of the current state of the early stage business economy in New Orleans.
TIDR 1725
Black Culture, Power, Politics, and Leadership
(1)
This one-credit course complements the experience of students living in the 1963
Collective Residential Learning Community (RLC) by providing them with an equity oriented interpretative framework grounded in Black thought, experience, and history. The modular survey course was designed for first-year students interested in exploring Black history, culture, and knowledge across the African diaspora. Through this first year seminar, students will develop an appreciation and understanding of the contributions of Black people in a globalized context.
TIDR 1890
Service Learning
(0-1)
Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
TIDR 1898
Service Learning
(0-1)
Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
TIDR 1925
Natural History of Louisiana
(1)
This course examines the origin and evolution of Louisiana’s ecosystems. Students will learn about living and prehistoric plants and animals and their physical surroundings while exploring Louisiana’s coastal marshes, bottomland hardwood forests, longleaf pine savannahs, and tallgrass prairies. Course includes multiple field trips.
TIDR 1981
Frames Films & Femmes Fatales
(1)
This course is a critical survey of cinematic works by and about women, with examples drawn from different modes of cinematic expression (mainstream fiction films as well as alternative film and video [including documentaries, experimental, & narrative]) and from different historical periods (from the 1930s to the present). The course deploys feminist approaches to film criticism and applies these approaches to cinematic representations of women. Films illustrating particular genres, as well as feminist and ''women's'' films, are discussed and critiqued. We will consider the role of film in our understandings of sex, gender, and sexuality, as well as race, class, and disability. Through discussions and writing, we will work to discern relevant social, political, ideological, and aesthetic concepts in the media we examine. We will look at contemporary Hollywood and independent cinema, US and some international films by both established and emerging filmmakers.
TIDR 1983
Us vs. Them
(1)
Black vs. White. Citizen vs. Immigrant. Transgender vs. Cisgender. Christian vs. Muslim. Gay vs. Straight. The list goes on. In recent years, the United States has become increasingly polarized. The most interesting and exciting aspects of human diversity are set against one another, in rigid opposing binaries. Through interactive workshops, cultural trips, discussions of texts and films, writing reflections, and guest speakers, this seminar will serve as an incubator for students from diverse backgrounds to develop their understanding of the complexities of cultures, identities, and power dynamics. We will simultaneously explore everyday practices for world building beyond "Us. Vs. Them."
TIDR 1985
Women Leading New Orleans
(1)
From non-profit organizations to government, from social movements to Mardi Gras, from restaurants to boardrooms, women have led New Orleans. Using an intersectional feminist lens, this course will explore how the personal, the organizational, and the institutional intersect to shape how women practice leadership. Students will be introduced to theories and research that address gender and leadership while focusing on historical and contemporary examples of women practicing leadership in New Orleans. The course will begin with a brief introduction to a sociological perspective on gender and intersectionality - foundational concepts of the course - and move into discussions of how and why women lead, as well as barriers they encounter to leadership. Guest speakers, field trips, and writing assignments will ask students to think broadly, but also analytically, about what leadership means, as well as about how identities and institutions shape the experience of leadership.
COLQ 1010
Freshmen Colloquium Seminar
(1-3)
First-year Seminar Colloquium course.
COLQ 1020
Freshman Colloquium
(1-3)
First-year seminar course; topics vary by instructor.
Data Hub (DATA)
DATA 1010
Introduction to Data
(3)
DATA 1010
aims to provide students with an overview to what data is, how it is used correctly and incorrectly, how it is found, stored, and managed, and how it can be used as a basis for decision making and analysis. The overall goal of this course is to increase data literacy, such that students are more confidently able to work with the increasing amounts of data in their lives, jobs, and academic careers. This course is aimed towards students in all schools and fields and has no prerequisites.
DATA 1940
Transfer Course Work
(0-4)
Transfer Coursework
Maximum Hours:
99
DATA 2030
Data Visualization
(3)
Students will examine different creative and analytical theories and techniques for understanding and developing data visualizations, including maps, graphs, charts, and interactive tools such as dashboards. Students will access and clean data for visualizing potential, analyze data visualizations for bias and persuasive intent, and create data visualizations to communicate findings and tell engaging stories for diverse audiences. Students will also consider the societal role that data visualizations play in validating knowledge while exploring ethical concerns and critiques around communicating arguments visually. As practice, students will storyboard, create, peer review, and justify design choices when using a variety of open-source data visualizations. Students of all skill levels are welcome, and all data visualization skills will be taught in class.
DATA 2040
Text and Qualitative Data Analysis
(3)
This course provides an overview of the tools most commonly used to analyze data from textual or qualitative sources such as written or digital text, interviews, focus groups, and opened-ended survey questions. Both manual (i.e., by hand) and software analytic approaches will be explored. For each type of analysis, the underlying theory, assumptions, and mechanics of how each analytical tool works, are discussed, along with appropriate interpretation of results. The course is designed for students from any major with real-world examples drawn from the humanities, social and behavioral sciences, business, and government. Students of all skill levels are welcome, including those with limited or no statistical, mathematical, or programming backgrounds. All analysis skills will be taught in class.
DATA 2060
Data Science Research and Communication
(3)
This course will examine how knowledge production processes relate to designing and communicating data and science research across various digital mediums. Students will develop their expertise in epistemology theories and practices relating to data research. This course will also cover ethical considerations when developing and promoting research using data. They will also examine how political and social issues such as race, gender, sexuality, and disability often affect how data stories are told and interpreted and the treatment of researchers online. This interdisciplinary course will engage a variety of fields, including data science, technology studies, and digital scholarship. Students will learn to use digital tools to convey science communication products. All technical skills will be taught in the course.
DATA 2150
Artificial Intelligence Tools
(3)
The introduction of widely available and accessible generative Artificial Intelligence tools, such as ChatGPT, democratizes expertise, unlocks knowledge, and bestows impressive abilities. This hands-on course provides students with practical experience employing generative AI to perform real-world tasks. By the end of the course, students will be able to effectively collect accurate historical and real-time information, generate high-quality text and media, transform content between formats, analyze data to derive insights and deploy generative AI to tackle private and professional challenges.
DATA 2810
Special Topics
(3)
Special Topics in Data Literacy. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
DATA 2811
Special Topics
(3)
Special Topics in Data Literacy. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours under separate title.
Maximum Hours:
99
DATA 2940
Transfer Coursework
(0-20)
Transfer Coursework
Maximum Hours:
99
DATA 3010
Introduction to Data Collection and Wrangling
(3)
This course provides an intensive introduction to data collection, wrangling, and summarization using the R programming language. Students will learn the fundamental skills required to collect, re-shape, transform, manipulate, analytically explore, summarize, and visualize data. Students will learn how data must be organized and formatted in order to perform effective data analysis or be inputted into a machine learning algorithm. Further, students will learn how to produce data-driven dynamic web applications. The time students allocate to learn these data-related skills will allow them to create data sets that promote more efficient, reproducible, and understandable data science products. The course is designed for students from any major with real-world examples drawn from a variety of domains. Students of all skill levels are welcome, including those with limited or no statistical, mathematical, or programming backgrounds. All necessary skills will be taught in class.
DATA 3080
Introduction to Causal Inference
(3)
This course provides an introduction to the fundamental problem of causal inference and data-oriented methods to estimate causality. A variety of experimental and quasi-experimental methodologies will be covered in addition to considerations of logic, design, and ethical issues associated with the collection and use of experimental data. The course is designed for students from any major with real-world examples drawn from the social and behavioral sciences, economics and finance, biology, history, anthropology, conflict studies, health, development, and government. Although all analysis skills will be self-contained in the course, it is required that students have completed DATA 2020: Data Analysis. Other courses in data or statistical analysis may be used to meet the prerequisite requirement with the approval of the instructor.
Prerequisite(s):
DATA 2020.
DATA 3520
Data Analysis
(3)
This course provides an overview of the statistical tools most commonly used to analyze quantitative data. Topics include describing data, statistical inference, statistical significance, hypothesis testing, and regression analyses. The course focuses on understanding how to use appropriate analytical techniques and interpret the results of statistical analyses for variables with different levels of measurement. For each topic area, the methodology, including the underlying theory, assumptions, and mechanics of how each analytical tool works, is discussed, along with the appropriate interpretation of results. Concepts are presented in the context of real-world examples using publicly available data sets. The course will also introduce students to statistical software. Students of all skill levels are welcome, including those with limited or no statistical, mathematical, or programming backgrounds. All data analysis skills will be taught in class.
DATA 3530
GIS and Mapping Global Issues
(3)
Geographic information systems (GIS) involve creating, storing, retrieving, analyzing, and visualizing spatial data. This course examines the global impact on social, political, economic, and environmental dynamics when using geographic information systems (GIS), global positioning systems (GPS), and other geospatial technologies in daily life. Readings and discussions will focus on global affairs, such as critical cartography, GIS integration with social theories, implications for crime, urban planning, scientific research, health, environmental justice, feminist perspectives, and the intersection of economic development with environmental shifts. This course will also introduce students to foundational concepts and skills in working with spatial data, including finding and creating data, spatial analysis, and GIS-based map production. Specific global affairs topics will be analyzed using ESRIs ArcGIS. Students will gather GIS data, analyze global affairs topics using GIS, and produce their own data projects.
DATA 3810
Special Topics
(3)
Special Topics in Data Literacy. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
DATA 3940
Transfer Course Work
(0-4)
Transfer Coursework
Maximum Hours:
99
DATA 4030
Data Ethics, Privacy, and Governance
(3)
This seminar uses social frameworks to examine historical and contemporary questions around ethics, privacy, and governance. Students will be introduced to concepts relating to critical data studies, such as algorithm bias, machine learning, data colonialism, and critical code studies. Students will examine data in the context of medicine, privacy, capitalism, violence, moral responsibility, biometrics, governance, and labor practices. Readings and seminar discussions will involve identifying data problems and discussing solutions for creating responsible and beneficial data practices for their society. Students will storyboard, write, revise, and present a data ethics paper where they apply ethical reasoning to data issues. All technical skills will be taught in this course.
DATA 4040
Network Data Science
(3)
This course provides an overview of the tools most commonly used to collect, analyze, and visualize network data. For each type of analysis, the underlying theory, assumptions, and mechanics of how each analytical tool works, are discussed, along with appropriate interpretation and visualization of the results. The course is designed for students from any major with real-world examples drawn from the social and behavioral sciences, economics and finance, biology, history, anthropology, social media, public health, and government. Students of all skill levels are welcome, including those with limited or no statistical, mathematical, or programming backgrounds. All analysis skills will be taught in class. However, it is highly recommended, but not required, that students complete DATA 2020 or an equivalent course in statistics and/or data analysis, preferably one that utilized the statistical computing programs R and RStudio, prior to enrollment.
DATA 4910
Independent Study
(1-4)
Qualified students may arrange for independent study with approval of an instructor (dependent upon area of study) and their faculty adviser. Details of each student's program will vary, but all will involve some combination of research, readings, oral reports, and written work. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
DATA 4920
Independent Study
(1-4)
Qualified students may arrange for independent study with approval of an instructor (dependent upon area of study) and their faculty adviser. Details of each student's program will vary, but all will involve some combination of research, readings, oral reports, and written work. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
English for Academic and Professional Purposes (EAPP)
EAPP 1000
Composition and Reading
(3)
This course prepares students to subsequently master their college writing requirements.  In addition to developing an advanced understanding of English syntax, morphology, and semantics, students explore the process of composing, revising, and editing in English and the expectations of academic writing to different audience expectations in Global Perspectives.
EAPP 1050
Multicultural Speech
(3)
This course prepares students to master public speaking and interpersonal dynamics with a focus on Race and Inclusion in the USA. In addition to developing an advanced understanding of English phonology, semantics, and pragmatics, students focus on the communication strategies hat make presentations and interpersonal interactions memorable and smooth.
EAPP 1940
Transfer Coursework
(0-20)
Transfer Coursework at the 1000 level.
Maximum Hours:
99
EAPP 3010
Academic and Professional Rhetoric
(1)
In this six-week course, students will develop an advanced understanding of English syntax, semantics and mechanics. They will engage with both spoken and written academic documents that engage expert knowledge in a scholarly manner. Additionally, students will understand the rhetoric necessary for intellectual inquiry and independent research in both academic and professional environments, and they will incorporate these skills into their current university courses.  The course includes an optional service-learning component.  The service learning will enhance students understanding and development of citizenship skills within the context of their local, national, and global communities.
Prerequisite(s):
EAPP 1000
*
,
1050
*
or
ENGL 1011
*
.
*
May be taken concurrently.
EAPP 3510
Teaching and Working Abroad
(3)
This course is designed to develop students with little teaching and working experience with the academic and practical skills needed to teach and work abroad, especially English in a foreign language environment. Students are encouraged but not required to also enroll in
EAPP 3520
: Living and Working Abroad in order to complete the two-course series.
EAPP 3520
Living and Working Abroad
(3)
This 3-credit course is designed to give students a practical working knowledge of the linguistics of English and intercultural skills needed to live and work abroad, especially when teaching English as a foreign language. Students are encouraged but not required to also enroll in
EAPP 3510
: Teaching and Working Abroad in order to complete the two-course series.
EAPP 3530
Global English in Business
(3)
'Global English in Business' focusses on enhancing  communicative and cultural competency skills as they apply to the use of World Englishes in business contexts. It is designed to explore one of the World Englishes’ variations used in Business as a profession and social practice. The course seeks to analyze the interdiscursive texts of professionals in the business world to understand how language builds new relationships that are unique within their own spaces.  Precisely, we examine varied samples of global business literature and theories written in World Englishes to critically evaluate how English as a professional communicative language  vary in different business cultures around the world. Lastly, learners in this course are tasked with interrogating the role of World Englishes and how it generally applies to multiple business cultures around the globe.  Language skills addressed in this course include business communicative competency, writing  and speaking fluency in World Englishes, and business vocabulary development skills. This course is open to students who are interested in studying, working or interning in a business-related environment abroad. The course has a service-learning component that fulfills both tier I and II Tulane service-learning requirement. The course is open to all undergraduate students.
EAPP 3810
Special Topics
(3)
Maximum Hours:
99
EAPP 3820
Special Topics
(3)
Maximum Hours:
99
EAPP 3830
Special Topics
(3)
Maximum Hours:
99
EAPP 3840
Special Topics
(3)
Maximum Hours:
99
EAPP 3890
Service Learning
(0-1)
Maximum Hours:
99
Interdisciplinary Newcomb-Tulane College Courses (INTU)
INTU 1000
Hist &Phil of Higher Education
(3)
This course examines the social and political history of higher education with special emphasis on the transformation of women and the college landscape from the early 20th century to present day. Using historical and literary frameworks to generate and address and answer questions about college women today, this course will provide Newcomb Scholars with the opportunity to examine the social and political culture of various decades and its influence on college culture, women's colleges, women in college, and narratives about college life.
INTU 1010
Special Topics
(0-4)
Maximum Hours:
99
INTU 1011
Special Topics
(0-4)
Maximum Hours:
99
INTU 1890
Service Learning
(0-1)
Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Corequisite(s):
INTU 1000
.
Maximum Hours:
99
INTU 2000
Women Leading Change
(4)
The Harvard Business School originated and developed the phenomenon of the teaching case to simulate business experience in novices, to create a concrete vehicle for applying abstract theories to real world situations, and to engender engaged classroom discussion while fostering critical thinking skills as students were forced to wrestle with actual business dilemmas that had no easy answer.  Cases marry learning about real world policy and organizational problems with critical thinking, abstract reasoning, and theorizing valued in all academic disciplines. The objective of this course is to engage students in drawing leadership lessons from the real-world dilemmas of women leading organizations to bring about social change.  The course will also teach how to write and evaluate the usefulness of cases; each student will write a case linked to her field of study which engages the concepts of gender and leadership.  The course teaches critical thinking and problem solving through immersion in the stories of women leaders.  The course outcomes are an enhanced appreciation of the dilemmas that are encountered by women leading change; the ability to evaluate and compose case studies at the intersection of leadership and gender; and the demonstration of strategic thinking and problem-solving skill.
Prerequisite(s):
INTU 1000
.
INTU 2020
Wellness & Resilience for College & Beyond
(1)
College is an exciting and stressful time for everyone. The increased freedom and independence are both exciting and daunting, leading many students to struggle in new ways or with emotions that seem to have increased in intensity. Conversely, research has shown that individuals who develop and use resilience strategies and emotion regulation skills (such as opposite action, relaxation strategies, mindfulness, and practicing gratitude) as well as build positive routines (for example, good eating and sleep habits, daily exercising, scheduling fun activities) are more likely to be effective in their job roles, involved in strong relationships, physically and mentally healthy, and satisfied with their lives overall.
INTU 2500
Digital Scholarship
(1)
This course examines practices for designing research communications across a variety of digital mediums. It also examines how gender, often intersecting with race, class, and sexuality, affects the interpretation of research in digital forums and the treatment of researchers online. This interdisciplinary course will engage in a variety of fields including data visualization, digital media practices, technology studies, gender studies, and digital scholarship. Seminar discussions will include examining creative methods for developing digital research projects, ethical considerations when promoting research through digital mediums, and critically analyzing computational methods in research that supports social justice and gender/racial equity. As praxis, students will design, storyboard, create, peer review, revise and present digital research products that include visual, audio, and narrative components. All technical skill-levels are welcome.
Prerequisite(s):
INTU 1000
.
INTU 3000
Feminist Epistemologies and Research Design
(3)
In this course, students will read and discuss key texts that outline philosophies and methods of feminist knowledge production. Students will engage with foundational feminist epistemologies, such as standpoint theory, situated knowledges, and intersectionality, to understand the complex relationships between gender, race, class, and other categories that shape the distribution of power both within and outside the academy. They will explore research methods across fields while examining important debates about a researcher’s role and responsibilities to her/his/their subjects and the public. Research ethics regarding data collection, interpretation, and dissemination will be discussed through the lens of feminist and antiracist commitments. Applying these interdisciplinary theories of knowledge production, students will develop a research proposal. During weekly writing workshops, students will draft, peer-review, and revise portions of a research proposal that address the question, methods, literature review, and significance of that project.
Prerequisite(s):
INTU 2000
.
Course Limit:
1
INTU 3010
Global Culture Awareness
(1)
Course Limit:
99
INTU 3020
Cross Cultural Engagement
(1)
Prerequisite(s):
INTU 3010
.
Course Limit:
99
INTU 3030
Post Study Abroad Re-Entry
(1)
Prerequisite(s):
INTU 3020
.
Course Limit:
99
INTU 3050
Grant-Funded Research
(1)
This course is designed for students participating in a faculty-mentored research project who have received a grant through NTC and/or other campus entities.  The goal of this course is to offer opportunities for students to present the outcomes of their research in a structured forum at the Tulane Idea and Research Symposium.
Course Limit:
3
INTU 3060
Grant-funded Internship Course
(1)
This course is designed for students participating in a summer internship who have received a grant through NTC and other campus entities.  The goal of this course is to offer students opportunities to present the outcomes of their internship in a structured forum at the Tulane Idea and Research Symposium.
Course Limit:
3
INTU 3890
Service Learning
(0-1)
Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Corequisite(s):
INTU 3030
.
Maximum Hours:
99
INTU 3891
Service Learning
(0-1)
Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
INTU 3910
Special Topics
(0-4)
Maximum Hours:
99
INTU 3920
Special Topics
(0-3)
Maximum Hours:
99
INTU 4000
Newcomb Research Seminar
(1)
This course is designed to provide support and resources from the professor for students in the Newcomb Scholars Program to complete their independent research project. In this course, Newcomb Scholars will incorporate what they have researched and written in the previous seminars, finalize their research question, determine the appropriate research methods, and begin to answer that question in a comprehensive and systematic way that would be recognized by the relevant scholarly community as constituting original and important research. Each Scholar is expected to understand the work that has previously been done in her field and find a place for her research in that body of knowledge. Students will use their skills of analysis, criticism, and synthesis to address or respond to any relevant issues in their fields of study. Each student will present their research project at a campus conference in the Spring semester.
Prerequisite(s):
INTU 3000
.
INTU 4310
LSAT Review
(1)
INTU 4340
MCAT Review
(1)
INTU 4560
Study Abroad Internship
(1-4)
Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
INTU 4570
Internship
(1-4)
Internship Course.
Maximum Hours:
99
INTU 5380
Junior Year Abroad
(1-6)
Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
INTU 6850
Reproductive Rights, Law, and Policy
(1)
This course will focus on the Louisiana Legislative Session as a means of understanding the legislative process, civic engagement with that process, and policy and legal concerns that proposed legislation can raise – all within the context of understanding the legal framework surrounding abortion access and reproductive rights. The course will include legal and policy analysis of the most significant U.S. Supreme Court cases involving abortion rights, as well as an overview of the statutory and regulatory landscape applicable to abortion in Louisiana. With that backdrop, the course will then take a hands-on approach to the Louisiana Legislative Session, focusing on proposed bills that will impact reproductive justice. Guest speakers will help students to understand the policy implications – both intended and unintended – related to the proposed bills, as well as other legislation proposed or passed during recent legislative sessions.
INTU 7000
Year of Service Fall
(0-12)
Maximum Hours:
99
INTU 7010
Year of Service Spring
(0-12)
ROTC Courses (Air Force- AERO, Military Science- MILS, Navy Science- NAVS)
AERO 1010
Heritage and Values of the USAF I
(1)
"Heritage and Values," is a survey course designed to introduce students to the United States Air and Space Forces and provides an overview of the basic characteristics, missions, and organization of the Air and Space Forces. 
Leadership Laboratory is mandatory for AFROTC cadets and complements this course by providing cadets with Leadership experiences.
AERO 1011
Heritage and Values of the USAF I LAB
(0)
This lab is a dynamic and integrated grouping of leadership developmental activities designed to meet the needs and expectations of prospective Department of the Air Force second lieutenants and complement the AFROTC academic program. It is a student planned, organized, and executed practicum conducted under the supervision of the Detachment Commander and Operations Flight Commander.
AERO 1020
Heritage and Values of the USAF II
(1)
This is a survey course designed to introduce students to the United States Air and Space Forces and provides an overview of the basic characteristics, missions, and organization of the Air and Space Forces.  Leadership Laboratory is mandatory for AFROTC cadets and complements this course by providing cadets with Leadership experiences.
Corequisite(s):
AERO 1021
.
AERO 1021
Heritage and Values of the USAF II LAB
(0)
This lab is a dynamic and integrated grouping of leadership developmental activities designed to meet the needs and expectations of prospective Department of the Air Force second lieutenants and complement the AFROTC academic program. It is a student planned, organized, and executed practicum conducted under the supervision of the Detachment Commander and Operations Flight Commander.
Corequisite(s):
AERO 1020
.
AERO 1210
Evol Usaf Air&Space Pow
(1)
AERO 1220
Air Power History II
(1)
AERO 1290
Semester Abroad
(1-20)
Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
AERO 1940
Transfer Coursework
(0-20)
Transfer Coursework at the 1000 level. Departmental approval may be required.
Maximum Hours:
99
AERO 2010
Team and Leadership Fundamentals I
(1)
"Team and Leadership Fundamentals" provides a fundamental understanding of both leadership and team building. The lessons and course flow are designed to prepare students for field training and leadership positions in the detachment.  Leadership Laboratory is mandatory for AFROTC cadets and complements this course by providing cadets with Leadership experiences.
AERO 2011
Team and Leadership Fundamentals I LAB
(0)
This lab is a dynamic and integrated grouping of leadership developmental activities designed to meet the needs and expectations of prospective Department of the Air Force second lieutenants and complement the AFROTC academic program. It is a student planned, organized, and executed practicum conducted under the supervision of the Detachment Commander and Operations Flight Commander.
AERO 2020
Team and Leadership Fundamentals II
(1)
This course provides a fundamental understanding of both leadership and team building. The lessons and course flow are designed to prepare students for field training and leadership positions in the detachment. Leadership Laboratory is mandatory for AFROTC cadets and complements this course by providing cadets with Leadership experiences.
Corequisite(s):
AERO 2021
.
AERO 2021
Team and Leadership Fundamentals II LAB
(0)
This lab is a dynamic and integrated grouping of leadership developmental activities designed to meet the needs and expectations of prospective Department of the Air Force second lieutenants and complement the AFROTC academic program. It is a student planned, organized, and executed practicum conducted under the supervision of the Detachment Commander and Operations Flight Commander.
Corequisite(s):
AERO 2020
.
AERO 2390
Semester Abroad
(1-20)
Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
AERO 2940
Transfer Coursework
(0-20)
Transfer Coursework at the 2000 level. Department approval may be required.
Maximum Hours:
99
AERO 3010
Leading People and Effective Communication I
(3)
This course utilizes student’s field training experience to take a more in-depth look at leadership. Special emphasis is placed on enhancing communication skills, and why that is important as a leader. Students have an opportunity to try out these leadership and management techniques in a supervised environment as juniors and seniors.  Leadership Laboratory is mandatory for AFROTC cadets and complements this course by providing cadets with Leadership experiences.
AERO 3011
Leading People and Effective Communication I LAB
(0)
This lab is a dynamic and integrated grouping of leadership developmental activities designed to meet the needs and expectations of prospective Department of the Air Force second lieutenants and complement the AFROTC academic program. It is a student planned, organized, and executed practicum conducted under the supervision of the Detachment Commander and Operations Flight Commander.
AERO 3020
Leading People and Effective Communication II
(3)
utilizes student’s field training experience to take a more in-depth look at leadership. Special emphasis is placed on enhancing communication skills, and why that is important as a leader. Students have an opportunity to try out these leadership and management techniques in a supervised environment as juniors and seniors. Leadership Laboratory is mandatory for AFROTC cadets and complements this course by providing cadets with Leadership experiences.
Corequisite(s):
AERO 3021
.
AERO 3021
Leading People and Effective Communication II
(0)
This lab is a dynamic and integrated grouping of leadership developmental activities designed to meet the needs and expectations of prospective Department of the Air Force second lieutenants and complement the AFROTC academic program. It is a student planned, organized, and executed practicum conducted under the supervision of the Detachment Commander and Operations Flight Commander.
Corequisite(s):
AERO 3020
.
AERO 4010
National Security/Commissioning Preparation I
(3)
This course is designed for college seniors and gives them the foundation to understand their role as military officers and how they are directly tied to our National Security Strategy. It is an overview of the complex social and political issues facing the military profession and requires a measure of sophistication commensurate with the senior college level. Leadership Laboratory is mandatory for AFROTC cadets and complements this course by providing cadets with Leadership experiences.
AERO 4011
National Security/Commissioning Preparation I LAB
(0)
This lab is a dynamic and integrated grouping of leadership developmental activities designed to meet the needs and expectations of prospective Department of the Air Force second lieutenants and complement the AFROTC academic program. It is a student planned, organized, and executed practicum conducted under the supervision of the Detachment Commander and Operations Flight Commander.
AERO 4020
National Security/Commissioning Preparation II
(3)
This course is designed for college seniors and gives them the foundation to understand their role as military officers and how they are directly tied to our National Security Strategy. It is an overview of the complex social and political issues facing the military profession and requires a measure of sophistication commensurate with the senior college level. Leadership Laboratory is mandatory for AFROTC cadets and complements this course by providing cadets with Leadership experiences.
Corequisite(s):
AERO 4021
.
AERO 4021
National Security/Commissioning Preparation II LAB
(0)
This lab is a dynamic and integrated grouping of leadership developmental activities designed to meet the needs and expectations of prospective Department of the Air Force second lieutenants and complement the AFROTC academic program. It is a student planned, organized, and executed practicum conducted under the supervision of the Detachment Commander and Operations Flight Commander.
Corequisite(s):
AERO 4020
.
AERO 5190
Semester Abroad
(1-20)
Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
AERO 5380
Junior Year Abroad
(1-20)
Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
AERO 5390
Junior Year Abroad
(1-20)
Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
AERO 5940
Transfer Coursework
(0-20)
Transfer coursework at the 5000 level. Departmental approval required.
Maximum Hours:
99
MILS 1010
Intro Army & Critical Thinking
(1)
MILS 1010
introduces you to the personal challenges and competencies that are critical for effective leadership and communication. You will learn how the personal development of life skills such as cultural understanding, goal setting, time management, mental/physical resiliency, and stress management relate to leadership, Officership, and the Army profession. As you become further acquainted with
MILS 1010
, you will learn the structure of the ROTC Basic Course program consisting of
MILS 1010
,
1020
,
2010
,
2020
, Fall and Spring Leadership Labs, and Base Camp.  The focus is on developing basic knowledge and comprehension of Army leadership dimensions, attributes and core leader competencies while gaining an understanding of the ROTC program, its purpose in the Army, and its advantages for the student.
Corequisite(s):
MILS 1011
.
MILS 1011
Intro Army & Critical Thinking
(0)
Corequisite(s):
MILS 1010
.
MILS 1020
Intro Profession of Arms
(2)
MILS 1020
overviews leadership fundamentals such as setting direction, problem-solving, listening, presenting briefs, providing feedback, and using effective writing skills. You will explore dimensions of leadership attributes and core leader competencies in the context of practical, hands-on, and interactive exercises. As you become further acquainted with
MILS 1020
, you will learn the structure of the ROTC Basic Course program consisting of
MILS 1010
,
1020
,
2010
,
2020
, Fall and Spring Leadership Labs, and Basic Camp.  The key objective this semester is to explore (in more detail) the Army's leadership philosophy and learn fundamental military concepts.  Emphasis on Army leadership will provide the learner a better understanding of the ROTC program, its purpose in the Army, and its advantages for the student.
Corequisite(s):
MILS 1021
.
MILS 1021
Intro Profession of Arms
(0)
Lab.
Corequisite(s):
MILS 1020
.
Corequisite(s):
MILS 1020
.
MILS 1940
Transfer Coursework
(0-20)
Transfer Coursework at the 1000 level. Department approval may be required.
Maximum Hours:
99
MILS 2010
Leadership & Decision Making
(2)
MILS 2010
explores the dimensions of creative and innovative tactical leadership strategies and styles by examining team dynamics and two historical leadership theories that form the basis of the Army leadership framework. Aspects of personal motivation and team building are practiced planning, executing and assessing team exercises. While participation in the leadership labs is not mandatory during the MILS II year, significant experience can be gained in a multitude of areas and participation in the labs is highly encouraged.  The focus continues to build on developing knowledge of the leadership attributes and core leader competencies through the understanding of Army rank, structure, and duties as well as broadening knowledge of land navigation and squad tactics. Case studies will provide a tangible context for learning the Soldier's Creed and Warrior Ethos.
Corequisite(s):
MILS 2011
.
MILS 2011
Leadership & Decision Making
(0)
Corequisite(s):
MILS 2010
.
MILS 2020
Army Doctrine & Team Deve
(2)
MILS 2020
examines the challenges of leading teams in the complex operational environment. The course highlights dimensions of terrain analysis, patrolling, and operation orders. Further study of the theoretical basis of the Army Leadership Requirements Model explores the dynamics of adaptive leadership in the context of military operations.
MILS 2020
prepares Cadets for
MILS 3010
. Cadets develop greater self-awareness as they assess their own leadership styles and practice communication and team building skills. Case studies give insight into the importance and practice of teamwork and tactics in real-world scenarios.
Corequisite(s):
MILS 2021
.
MILS 2021
Army Doctrine & Team Deve
(0)
Corequisite(s):
MILS 2020
.
Corequisite(s):
MILS 2020
.
MILS 2530
Military History
(3)
MILS 2940
Transfer Coursework
(0-20)
Transfer Coursework at the 2000 level. Department approval may be required.
Maximum Hours:
99
MILS 3010
Tring Mgmt & Warfighting Func
(3)
This course is designed to provide opportunities, apply learned skills, and evaluate progress in preparation for successful completion of LDAC.  This course is physically and intellectually demanding. Ultimately, each MILS III Cadet is trained in skills such as map reading, land navigation, combat water survival training, basic rifle marksmanship, troop leading procedures, operations order process, briefing skills, problem solving and small-unit tactics/techniques. Active leadership and leadership application techniques is stressed and evaluated during the course.
Prerequisite(s):
MILS 1010
,
1020
,
2010
and
2020
.
Corequisite(s):
MILS 3011
.
MILS 3011
Tring Mgmt & Warfig Func Lab
(0)
Corequisite(s):
MILS 3010
.
MILS 3020
Applied Leadership-Small Unit Ops
(3)
This is an academically challenging course where you will study, practice, and apply the fundamentals of Army Leadership, Officership, Army Values and ethics, personal development, and small unit tactics at the team and squad level. At the conclusion of this course, you will be capable of planning, coordinating, navigating, motivating and leading a team or squad in the execution of a tactical mission during a classroom PE, a Leadership Lab, or during a Situational Training Exercise (STX) in a field environment. Successful completion of this course will help prepare you for success at the ROTC Advanced Camp in which you will attend next summer at Ft. Knox, KY. This course includes reading assignments, homework assignments, small group assignments, briefings, case studies, and practical exercises, a mid-term exam, and a final exam. You will receive systematic and specific feedback on your leader attributes values and core leader competencies from your instructor and other ROTC cadre and MILS IV Cadets who will evaluate you using the ROTC Leader Development Program (LDP) model.
Corequisite(s):
MILS 3021
.
MILS 3021
Appld Ldership-Sm Unit Ops Lab
(0)
Corequisite(s):
MILS 3020
.
Corequisite(s):
MILS 3020
.
MILS 4010
The Army Officer
(3)
MILS 4010
transitions the focus of student learning from being trained, mentored and evaluated as an MILS III Cadet to learning how to train, mentor and evaluate underclass Cadets. MILS IV Cadets learn the duties and responsibilities of an Army staff officer and apply the Military Decision Making Process, Army Writing Style, and the Army's Training Management and METL Development processes during weekly Training Meetings to plan, execute and assess battalion training events. Cadets learn to safely conduct training by understanding and employing the Composite Risk Management Process. Cadets learn how to use the Comprehensive Soldier Fitness (CSF) program to reduce and manage stress.
Prerequisite(s):
MILS 3010
.
Corequisite(s):
MILS 4011
.
MILS 4011
The Army Officer Lab
(0)
Corequisite(s):
MILS 4010
.
MILS 4020
Company Grade Leadership
(3)
MILS 4020 explores the dynamics of leading in the complex situations of current military operations in the full spectrum operations (FSO).  You will examine differences in customs and courtesies, military law, principles of war, and rules of engagement in the face of international terrorism. You also explore aspects of interacting with non-government organizations, civilians on the battlefield, and host nation support.  The course places significant emphasis on preparing you for BOLC B, and your first unit of assignment. It uses case studies, scenarios, and What Now, Lieutenant? exercises to prepare you to face the complex ethical and practical demands of leading as a commissioned officer in the United States Army. This semester, you will explore Military Professional Ethics and ethical decision making facing an Officer, gain practical experience in Cadet battalion leadership roles, demonstrate personal skills in operations and communications, evaluate and develop MILS III small unit leaders, and examine issues of force protection in Full Spectrum Operations & prepare for the transition to a career as an Army Officer.
Prerequisite(s):
MILS 4010
.
Corequisite(s):
MILS 4021
.
MILS 4021
Company Grade Leadership Lab
(0)
Corequisite(s):
MILS 4020
.
Corequisite(s):
MILS 4020
.
MILS 4910
Independent Study
(1-3)
MILS 4920
Independent Study
(1-3)
MILS 5190
Semester Abroad
(1-20)
Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
MILS 5940
Transfer Coursework
(0-20)
Transfer coursework at the 5000 level. Departmental approval required.
Maximum Hours:
99
NAVS 1010
Intro To Naval Science
(3)
Freshman/Fall.  A general introduction to the naval profession and to concepts of sea power. The mission, organization, and warfare components of the U.S. Navy and Marine Corps. Overview of officer and enlisted ranks and rates, training and education, and career patterns. Naval courtesy and customs, military justice, leadership, and nomenclature. Professional competencies required to become a naval officer.
Corequisite(s):
NAVS 1011
.
NAVS 1011
Naval Science Lab
(0)
The laboratory time is used to conduct close-order drill and professional education/training. Topics cover general Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects not normally included in the curriculum of the Naval Science courses. Laboratory periods may also be used on an occasional basis to supplement the Naval Science courses and provide additional time for projects, such as navigation chart work. The Naval Science Laboratory
Course Limit:
99
NAVS 1020
Sea Power & Maritime Affairs
(3)
This course is a study of the U.S. Navy and the influence of sea power on history that incorporates both a historical and political science process to explore the major events, attitudes, personalities, and circumstances that have imbued the U.S. Navy with its proud history and rich tradition. It deals with issues of national imperatives in peacetime, as well as war, varying maritime philosophies that were interpreted into Naval strategies/doctrines, budgetary concerns which shaped force realities, and the pursuit of American diplomatic objectives. It concludes with a discussion of the Navy’s strategic and structural changes at the end of the Cold War and its new focus, mission, and strategy in the post-September 11, 2001 world.
NAVS 1021
Sea Power & Maritime Affrs Lab
(0)
The laboratory time is used to conduct close-order drill and professional education/training. Topics cover general Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects not normally included in the curriculum of the Naval Science courses. Laboratory periods may also be used on an occasional basis to supplement the Naval Science courses and provide additional time for projects, such as navigation chart work. The Naval Science Laboratory curriculum guide lists the topics for the laboratory periods.
Corequisite(s):
NAVS 1020
.
NAVS 1060
Leadership Lab
(0)
The laboratory time is used to conduct close-order drill and professional education/training. Topics cover general Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects not normally included in the curriculum of the Naval Science courses. Laboratory periods may also be used on an occasional basis to supplement the Naval Science courses and provide additional time for projects, such as navigation chart work. The Naval Science Laboratory curriculum guide lists the topics for the laboratory periods.
NAVS 1290
Semester Abroad
(1-20)
Freshman study abroad credit.
Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
NAVS 1940
Transfer Coursework
(0-20)
Transfer Coursework at the 1000 level. Department approval may be required.
Maximum Hours:
99
NAVS 2000
Leadership & Management I
(3)
The course introduces the student to many of the fundamental concepts of leading Sailors and Marines, which shall be expanded upon during the continuum of leadership development throughout NROTC. It develops the elements of leadership vital to the effectiveness of Navy/Marine Corps officers by reviewing the theories and parameters of leadership and management within and outside of the Naval Service and progressing through values development, interpersonal skills, management skills, and application theory. Practical applications are explored through the use of experiential exercises, readings, case studies, and laboratory discussions.
Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Corequisite(s):
NAVS 1011
.
Maximum Hours:
99
NAVS 2001
Leadership & Management I Lab
(0)
The laboratory time is used to conduct close-order drill and professional education/training. Topics cover general Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects not normally included in the curriculum of the Naval Science courses. Laboratory periods may also be used on an occasional basis to supplement the Naval Science courses and provide additional time for projects, such as navigation chart work. The Naval Science Laboratory curriculum guide lists the topics for the laboratory periods.
NAVS 2010
Naval Ship Systems I
(3)
In this course, students learn detailed ship design, hydrodynamic forces, stability, propulsion, electrical theory and distribution, hydraulic theory and ship control, and damage control. The course includes basic concepts of theory/design of steam, gas turbine, diesel, and nuclear propulsion. Case studies on leadership/ethical issues in the engineering arena are also covered.
Corequisite(s):
NAVS 1011
.
NAVS 2011
Naval Ship Systems I Lab
(0)
The laboratory time is used to conduct close-order drill and professional education/training. Topics cover general Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects not normally included in the curriculum of the Naval Science courses. Laboratory periods may also be used on an occasional basis to supplement the Naval Science courses and provide additional time for projects, such as navigation chart work. The Naval Science Laboratory curriculum guide lists the topics for the laboratory periods.
NAVS 2390
Semester Abroad
(1-20)
Sophomore study abroad credit.
Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
NAVS 2940
Transfer Coursework
(0)
Maximum Hours:
99
NAVS 3010
Navigation I
(3)
This course is an in-depth study of the theory, principles, procedures, and application of plotting, piloting, and electronic navigation, as well as an introduction to maneuvering boards. Students learn piloting techniques, the use of charts, the use of visual and electronic aids, and the theory of operation of both magnetic and gyrocompasses. Students develop practical skills in plotting and electronic navigation. Other topics include tides, currents, effects of wind/weather, voyage planning, and an application and introduction to the international/inland rules of navigation. The course is supplemented with a review/analysis of case studies involving moral/ethical/leadership issues pertaining to the concepts listed above.
NAVS 3011
Navigation I Lab
(0)
The laboratory time is used to conduct close-order drill and professional education/training. Topics cover general Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects not normally included in the curriculum of the Naval Science courses. Laboratory periods may also be used on an occasional basis to supplement the Naval Science courses and provide additional time for projects, such as navigation chart work. The Naval Science Laboratory curriculum guide lists the topics for the laboratory periods.
Corequisite(s):
NAVS 3010
.
NAVS 3020
Naval Ops Analysis
(3)
This course is a continued study of relative motion, formation tactics, and ship employment. It includes introductions to Naval operations and operations analysis, ship behavior and characteristics in maneuvering, applied aspects of ship handling, afloat communications, Naval command and control, Naval warfare areas, and joint warfare. The course is supplemented with a review/analysis of case studies involving moral/ethical/leadership issues pertaining to the concepts listed above.
Corequisite(s):
NAVS 1011
.
NAVS 3021
Naval Ops Analysis Lab
(0)
The laboratory time is used to conduct close-order drill and professional education/training. Topics cover general Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects not normally included in the curriculum of the Naval Science courses. Laboratory periods may also be used on an occasional basis to supplement the Naval Science courses and provide additional time for projects, such as navigation chart work. The Naval Science Laboratory curriculum guide lists the topics for the laboratory periods.
NAVS 3030
Evolution of Warfare
(3)
In this course, students trace the development of warfare to the present day. It is designed to cover the causes of continuity and change in the means and methods of warfare. It addresses the influence of political, economic, and societal factors on the conduct of war, with significant attention focused on the role of technological innovation in changing the battlefield. Students will explore the contribution of preeminent military theorists and battlefield commanders to our modern understanding of the art and science of war.
Corequisite(s):
NAVS 1011
.
NAVS 3031
Evolution of Warfare Lab
(0)
The laboratory time is used to conduct close-order drill and professional education/training. Topics cover general Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects not normally included in the curriculum of the Naval Science courses. Laboratory periods may also be used on an occasional basis to supplement the Naval Science courses and provide additional time for projects, such as navigation chart work. The Naval Science Laboratory curriculum guide lists the topics for the laboratory periods.
NAVS 3050
Fund of Maneuver Warfare
(3)
Corequisite(s):
NAVS 3051
.
NAVS 3051
Fund of Maneuver Warfare
(0)
Corequisite(s):
NAVS 3050
.
NAVS 3940
Transfer Coursework
(0-20)
Transfer Coursework at the 3000 level. Department approval may be required.
Maximum Hours:
99
NAVS 4010
Naval Ship Systems II
(3)
Junior/Spring.  Theory and employment of weapons systems, including the processes of detection, evaluation, threat analysis, weapon selection, delivery, guidance, and explosives. Fire control systems and major weapons types, including capabilities and limitations. Physical aspects of radar and underwater sound. Facets of command, control, and communications as means of weapons system integration.
NAVS 4011
Naval Ship Systems II Lab
(0)
Corequisite(s):
NAVS 4010
.
Corequisite(s):
NAVS 4010
.
NAVS 4020
Leadership and Ethics
(3)
Senior/Spring.  The interaction of leadership, organizational behavior, and human resource management. Subordinate interviewing and counseling, performance appraisal, military and civilian law, and managerial ethics and values. This capstone course integrates professional competencies to develop understanding of the issues faced by leaders, managers, and naval officers.
NAVS 4021
Leadership & Ethics Lab
(0)
Corequisite(s):
NAVS 4020
.
Corequisite(s):
NAVS 4020
.
NAVS 4030
Fundamentals Maneuver Warfare
(3)
A historical survey of the development of amphibious doctrine and the conduct of amphibious operations. The evolution of amphibious warfare in the 20th century, especially during World War II. Present-day potential and limitations on amphibious operations, including the concept of rapid deployment force.
Corequisite(s):
NAVS 4031
.
NAVS 4031
Fundamentals Maneuver Warfare
(0)
Corequisite(s):
NAVS 4030
.
Corequisite(s):
NAVS 4030
.
NAVS 4890
Service Learning
(0-1)
Students complete a service activity in the community in conjunction with the content of a three-credit co-requisite course. Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
NAVS 4910
Independent Study
(3)
Independent study.
NAVS 4940
Transfer Coursework
(0-20)
Transfer coursework at the 4000 level. Departmental approval required.
Maximum Hours:
99
NAVS 5190
Semester Abroad
(1-20)
Semester abroad.
Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
NAVS 5380
Junior Year Abroad
(1-20)
Junior year abroad.
Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
NAVS 5390
Junior Year Abroad
(1-20)
Junior year abroad.
Course may be repeated up to unlimited credit hours.
Maximum Hours:
99
NAVS 5940
Transfer Coursework
(0-20)
Transfer coursework at the 5000 level. Departmental approval required.
Maximum Hours:
99