CORE REQUIREMENTS: School of Social Work
URL: https://catalog.tulane.edu/social-work/

=== COURSE CODES MENTIONED ===
SOWK 7520, SOWK 7530, SOWK 7540, SOWK 7910, SOWK 7930, SOWK 7120, SOWK 7130, SOWK 7211, SOWK 7310

=== FULL TEXT ===
Mailing Address
School of Social Work
127 Elk Place, Mail Code 8906
New Orleans, LA 70112
Administrative Office
Interim Dean: Susan Davies, PhD, MEd
Interim Associate Dean of Academic Affairs: Candice Beasley, MSW, DSW, LCSW-BACS
Interim Director of MSW Programs: Tona Zwanziger, MSW, MS, LCSW
Director of DSW Program: Fred Buttell, PhD, LCSW
Director of DRLA Programs: Reggie Ferreira, PhD
Interim Director of Field Education: Tona Zwanziger, MSW, MS, LCSW
Director of Undergraduate Minor: Fred Buttell, PhD, LCSW
Assistant Dean of Enrollment Management: Amanda Rosales, MA
TSSW Mission
The Tulane School of Social Work's mission is to enhance the well-being and equitable treatment of diverse individuals and communities through transformative education, generation of knowledge, service, and community engagement.
TSSW Vision
TSSW strives to build innovative, world-class graduate programs through cutting-edge research and training future leaders to provide evidence-informed, interdisciplinary practice locally and globally that advances the behavioral health and health needs of individuals, families, and communities.
MSW Mission
The Master of Social Work Program at the Tulane University School of Social Work is part of a large private research-intensive University located in the city of New Orleans which has a long-standing commitment to community engagement. Our mission, through a person in environment framework, is to educate and inspire competent social work leaders that are committed to advancing human rights and social justice within communities, promoting quality of life for all people locally and globally, whilst engaging with clinical in community practice and service that is evidence-based, ethical, and culturally responsive, enhancing the holistic dignity, worth, well- being and equitable treatment of individuals, families, and communities.
History
The Southern School of Social Sciences and Public Services was the first training program for social workers in the deep South. Under the sponsorship of the Kingsley Settlement House, a group of Tulane social science faculty offered the first classes in social welfare in 1914. Sponsored by grants from the American Red Cross, a formal one-year program was implemented in 1921.
By 1927, with funding from a Rockefeller grant, the school became a separate program with a two-year curriculum qualifying students for the Master of Arts. In 1935, the University established the degree of Master of Social Work. The School has awarded the Master of Social Work degree to more than 7,000 students from all 50 of the United States and more than 30 other countries.
Since 1927, the first year of national accreditation for social work education, the School of Social Work has maintained full accreditation status. It is a charter member of the Council on Social Work Education, which is the standard-setting and accreditation body in the field of social work education. Tulane School of Social Work is accredited by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE). TSSW was recently awarded accreditation of the Master of Social Work Degree program for the full eight-year cycle with no contingencies.
The Tulane School of Social Work built a tradition of leadership in promoting equal access to higher education and employment at the University. This tradition of leadership is evidenced in the following notable events:
The School of Social Work was the first division to have a female dean when Dr. Elizabeth Wisner was promoted to the position of dean in 1937.
The School supported the 1960s civil rights and political battle with Mrs. Pearlie Hardin Elloie, who as an African American woman applied for admission to the School of Social Work in order to desegregate the University, which Paul Tulane’s will had designated as a white male institution. She was eventually awarded admission and received a MSW from our school.
The School of Social Work was the first division of Tulane to admit African American students in the 1962-63 academic year.
The School of Social Work was the first division to appoint African American faculty.
The School has led the University in developing non-discrimination policies, appointing faculty members and admitting numbers of minority students disproportionate to School size and University enrollments, and in appointing self-identified lesbian and gay faculty.
The School of Social Work is the most diverse School within Tulane University.
Enrollment of African American students has increased by 113% and Hispanic students has increased by 121%.
The current faculty is the most diverse of the university’s history which also contributes to the richness of the learning environment. Our faculty has grown from 15 to 26. Diversity of the faculty has increased from 16% to 42%.
This diversity also extends to the school’s administration. Four of the eight people that make-up the administrative team are African American, Latino or African. In terms of the school’s history, three administrators of color are the first people of color to hold these positions (e.g. Director of Enrollment Management, Assistant Director of Field, and Assistant Dean of Finance and Human Resources) in the school.
Graduate School Policies
A full description of academic policies for all students in
Graduate Programs
can be found in the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies section of this catalog. Students should review these policies thoroughly.
School of Social Work Policies
Registration and Continued Enrollment
​
Academic Calendar
Continuous Registration Requirements
Add & Drop Policy
Transfer Credit
Modality
Independent Study
Course Auditing
Student Accountability and Standards
Grading Policy
Attendance Policy
Late Assignments
Incomplete Coursework
APA/Academic Writing
Academic Code of Conduct and Violations
​
Academic Rights and Responsibilities
Prevention of Academic Violations
Academic Conduct Violations
Who Should Report Academic Violations?
Resolution of Academic/APA Violations
Academic Alerts
Student Accountability and Standards Review
Student Accountability and Standards Review - Academic
Student Accountability and Standards Review - Professional and Ethical
Academic Grievances
​
For Course or Assignment Grade Grievances
Appeal of the Grade Grievance Committee’s Decision
Student Grade Appeal of Dean’s Appeal Decision
Instructor Appeal of the Grade Appeal
Student Appeal of Dean’s Appeal Decision
Leave of Absence, Medical Withdrawal, Leave and Personal Leave
​Leave of Absence
Medical Leave and Medical Withdrawals
Withdrawal: Personal Leave
Student Ambassadors
Graduation Requirements and Ceremonies
Certification of Degree
Graduation Ceremony
TSSW Student Affairs
Student Government Association/SGA
Equal Opportunity and Anti-Discrimination
FERPA
Academic Excellence and Opportunity Statement
Goldman Center for Accessibility
Field Education (MSW)
​
Relationship to the Field Practicum to the Overall Curriculum
Prerequisites for Field Practicum
Foundation Field Practicum
Advanced Field Practicum
Field Education Roles and Responsibilities
Procedures for Practicum Placement
Practicum Policies
Procedures for Addressing Problems in Field
School of Social Work Policies
Registration and Continued Enrollment
Academic Calendar
The TSSW Academic Calendar is the calendar that should be followed by all TSSW students. The TSSW calendar is different than academic calendars for other programs or for undergraduate schools. The TSSW Academic Calendar can be accessed on the TSSW website. The following information can be found on the academic calendar:
First and last dates of the semester;
Holidays/Class cancellations;
Registration dates;
Last date to add a course;
Last date to drop a course without academic penalty;
Last date to drop a course for a full or partial refund; and
Final grade due dates
Continuous Registration Requirements
The TSSW academic year includes three semesters, fall, spring, and summer. A student admitted to a degree program must be continuously registered in a degree-granting division of the university during the academic year in either full-time or part-time status from the date of first registration until the awarding of the degree, unless the student takes a Leave of Absence, voluntarily withdraws from school, takes a Medical Withdrawal, or is suspended or dismissed for academic or disciplinary reasons. Students must provide written documentation informing TSSW if continuous enrollment will be affected. Failure to be continuously registered in the program will be considered a withdrawal. TSSW reserves the right to not allow students to be readmitted to the program.
Add & Drop Policy
Students wishing to adjust their course schedule must consult the TSSW Academic Calendar for deadlines and instructions. Failure to make schedule adjustments promptly and accurately may result in financial or academic penalties. Schedule adjustments can be done online by the student during the two weeks following the first day of the semester. The last day to add/drop a course is listed on the academic calendar each semester. If a student wishes to drop all or any one of their courses during a semester, they must do so by the dates outlined in the academic calendar. TSSW will follow the academic calendar and refund schedule. Students will not be allowed to switch sections after the drop/add period, except under extenuating circumstances as decided by the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs (Director of MSW Programs in lieu of).
Due to the fixed nature of the MSW curriculum, dropping a single course can result in a significant delay in earning the required Field Education hours as well as completion of the program. Students must discuss these changes with their Academic Advisor to fully understand the potential consequences. Information regarding the final date to drop out of a course or withdraw from the program can be found on the TSSW Academic Calendar.  Please note, these dates will have an impact on whether a student will receive a grade of “W” or “WF” on a transcript.
Transfer Credit -
MSW Program
In order to obtain your social work license, you must have completed a Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) accredited Master of Social Work (MSW) Program. Only credits from other Master of Social Work Programs accredited by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) at the time you attended the program will be accepted. The credit must have been earned within the last five (5) years with a final grade of at least a "B". TSSW reserves the right to contact the dean or other authorities from the former school(s) to verify that the applicant left the institution in good academic and professional standing. TSSW does not give academic credit for life or work experience. TSSW considers each request to transfer credits on a case-by-case basis.
No more than a total of 15 credit hours will be accepted as transfer credits by TSSW. Additionally, a maximum number of credits in the below categories will be accepted:
Any transfer credits regarding Field Education hours will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
A maximum of three (3) courses or nine (9) credit hours (whichever is less) of foundation courses will be accepted. These courses include:
SOWK 7120
Social Welfare History & Policy (3 c.h.)
,
SOWK 7211
Human Behavior and the Social Environment I (3 c.h.)
, and
SOWK 7310
Introduction to Direct Social Work Practice (3 c.h.)
.
No other courses besides electives will be accepted.
SOWK 7130
Diversity and Social Justice
MAY NOT BE SUBSTITUTED UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES.
A maximum of nine (9) credit hours of electives courses will be accepted.
Regardless of the above composition, only a maximum of 15 total transfer credit hours will be accepted.
A syllabus must be submitted for review for transfer credits to be applied.
No credit will be given for partial course completion. Credits will not be considered for transfer to TSSW if the student did not complete the course.
Any questions surrounding transfer credits should be sent to the TSSW Admissions Office at msw@tulane.edu.
Modality/Curriculum Path
If a student wishes to change their modality (from online to on-campus or vice versa), or curriculum path (full-time to part-time or vice versa) they must meet with their Academic Advisor and/or Program Manager to update their curriculum plan. After this is completed, the Academic Advisor and/or Program Manager will review the request with the Director of MSW Programs. The Director of MSW Programs can grant or deny a student’s request to switch modalities.  A student may make this change only once during the Program.
Independent Study Policy
An "Independent Study" course can promote a student’s deeper learning and integration of content relevant to their current field practice or area of specialty. Eligible students must demonstrate academic and personal capacity to perform at the graduate level without close supervision as evaluated by TSSW and are in their third semester full time, second semester advanced standing, third semester, part-time advanced standing, or fifth semester part-time or beyond. Independent Studies are not a part of the standard MSW or MS curriculum plans. The Tulane School of Social Work approves requests for independent studies on a highly selective basis in the following circumstances:
An "Independent Study" course can promote a student’s deeper learning and integration of content relevant to their current field practice or area of specialty. Eligible students demonstrate academic and personal capacity to perform at the graduate level without close supervision as evaluated by TSSW. The independent study:
Cannot be taken prior to the third semester full time, second semester advanced standing, or fourth semester part-time or beyond;
Cannot replace a core course;
Cannot replicate an elective already offered;
Cannot be granted without a qualified full-time faculty member to facilitate the Independent Study and approval by the Director of MSW Programs.
The independent study is limited to one independent study course per degree program.
An independent study course should be comparable to a regular 3-credit, 16-week course.
A grade of “Incomplete” cannot be granted for any independent study course.
Procedures to request an Independent Study
At least one semester before the Independent Study's intended enrollment term, the student should contact their Program Manager in writing (by email) to review the requirements of completing an independent study.
ALL procedural steps must be completed within the first two weeks of the prior semester of the intended enrollment term of the independent study.
The Program Manager determines whether the basic requirements in the policy statement above are satisfied and may make recommendations for a particular faculty member.
The student is ultimately responsible for finding an appropriate full-time faculty member to ask them to facilitate an independent study course. A faculty member is under no obligation to facilitate an independent study course.
When a faculty member agrees to facilitate the independent study, they will confirm this in writing (by email using TSSW email) with the student and will include the MSW Program Manager in this confirmation email. The course should be comparable to a regular 3-credit, 16-week course.
The faculty member will collaborate with the student to develop course information which must include the following:
A syllabus for the course that aligns with current CSWE standards and competencies
A brief description of the course, learning objectives of the course, course requirements, and assignments.
The “Contract for Independent Study” is submitted to the MSW Program Manager who will obtain approval from the Director of MSW Programs who will make the final determination whether a student qualifies for an independent study. If approval is granted, the contract will be signed and dated by the student, faculty member, and the Director of MSW Programs.
Course information will be entered into the “Contract for Independent Study” form and submitted to the MSW Program Manager.
The Director of MSW Programs will review the Contract for Independent Study and will make the final determination regarding the request.  If the approval is granted, the contract will be signed and dated by the student, faculty member, and the Director of MSW Programs.
The MSW Program Manager provides copies of the signed and dated contract to the student, the faculty member, and a copy is placed in the student’s file. The program manager will enroll or assist the student with enrolling in the independent study course with the University Registrar.
The faculty member agrees to be available for feedback and guidance for the student during the independent study. It is the student’s responsibility to initiate contact for questions, feedback, or clarification from the faculty member.
The faculty member evaluates the resulting coursework to ensure all learning objectives and activities were accomplished and submits a final grade in line with the TSSW Academic Calendar.
A grade of “Incomplete "cannot be granted for any independent study course.
Placement Practicum courses (SOWK 7520-7540 and 7910-7960) cannot be replaced by any Independent Study course.
Course Auditing
All students must have at least 60 academic credit hours to receive the MSW degree from the Tulane School of Social Work. To receive credit for a course, students must be assigned a letter grade or in the case of Field Practicum & Seminar “S” or Satisfactory. In certain cases, students may request to audit a course for no grade or credit due to their interest in the material. Any full-time or part-time student in good standing (not on Academic Probation or under any conditions of the Academic and Professional Review Standards Committee) at the Tulane School of Social Work may audit courses provided the following provisions are met:
Approval is granted in writing and signed by the Director of MSW Programs the course instructor, and the student;
student must pay the current tuition per credit hour for the course
The number of students in the class is less than the cap set at registration; and
student audits no more than one course per semester and no more than two courses during the MSW program.
Faculty, in conjunction with the Director of MSW Programs, who have students auditing courses:
may set expectations for those students regarding class attendance, completion of assignments, examinations, and other class requirements;
must make course expectations known to the auditing students before the class starts or when the student registers;
may limit the number of students auditing a class; and
will not allow auditing of the course if the registration cap for a class has been met for that section.
Procedure for course auditing:
Students who wish to audit a course should notify the MSW Program Manager.
The MSW Program Manager will notify the student that they must obtain approval in writing from the instructor of the course they are requesting to audit.
The course instructor must make expectations clearly known in writing to the student. When the student and instructor agree to the audit and conditions of the audit, the student should notify the Program Manager in writing (by email), copying the course instructor in the correspondence.
Final approval must be granted in writing by the MSW Director of Programs.
Student Accountability and Standards
The intent of the Academic Standards is to comply with all CSWE (Council on Social Work Education) requirements as the TSSW accrediting body and to best prepare students with the proper social work foundation, education, and tools to begin their career as social workers.
Graduate students must maintain a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of at least 3.0. Courses in which a student earns a grade of “C” or lower cannot be counted towards a master’s level degree and will be required to be retaken. Once a student receives one final grade of “B-” or lower, the student will be placed on academic probation. If a student receives two final grades of “B-” or lower, a Student Accountability and Standards Review will be initiated. The student may be considered for dismissal by the school Faculty Review Committee at the conclusion of the Review. Students may also be dismissed for failure to meet departmental milestones, such as finishing coursework, securing placement and other failed competencies set forth by the Field Education Department or school.
It is crucial that the Tulane School of Social Work upholds the academic standards set forth by Tulane University.  All students enrolled in a social work program must also abide by the
National Association of
Social Workers (NASW) Code of Ethics.
which governs social workers’ professional and ethical behavior and values. Students must uphold ethical standards of practice established by NASW in the Code of Ethics, maintain professional performance standards required to be licensed as a social worker, and meet the practice behaviors established by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE). Violation of these standards may be identified by faculty, adjunct instructors or staff members. Violation of these standards includes but is not limited to:
Failure to meet generally accepted standards of professional conduct as outlined in the NASW Code of Ethics may include personal integrity or emotional stability required for professional practice;
Tulane University’s Office of Student Affairs/Case Management may be involved for any matters related to emotional or mental stability;
Failure to demonstrate effective interpersonal skills necessary to perform professional helping relationships;
Failure to adhere to the NASW Code of Ethics;
Has been found guilty of criminal misconduct that affects the student’s ability to be licensed as a social worker; or
Displays inappropriate or disruptive behavior toward clients, other students, faculty, staff, or other affiliates. Tulane University’s Office of Student Affairs/Case Management may be involved for any matters related to inappropriate or disruptive displays of behavior
Grading Policy
TSSW’s grading policy complies with Tulane’s University policy and students' grades are processed through the Office of the University Registrar. Students may gain access to their previously earned grades throughout the semester and their final grades at the end of the semester through the on-line system known as “Gibson.” The privacy of students' records is protected under the Federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 as amended (P.P. 93-380) and by policies issued by the Tulane Board of Administrators.
Every syllabus in the school reflects the grading system below as well as specific course requirements and/or grading weights for each assignment or test. The grading system is as follows:
Points:
%
Letter Grade
950-1000               (100-95%)                    A       Outstanding
900-949                  (94 -90%)                    A-      Excellent
850-899                  (89 - 85%)                   B+     Above Expected
800-849                  (84 -80%)                    B       Expected (minimum expectation)
750-799                  (79 -75%)                    B-      Marginal (below expectation)
700-749                  (74 -70%)                    C       Requires the course be retaken
W      Withdrawal
WF    Withdrawn/Fail
WU    Withdrawn/Unsatisfactory
I        Incomplete
Please note:
One grade of "B-" or lower will initiate Academic Probation.
Two grades of "B-" or lower will initiate a Student Accountability and Standards Review.
Two grades of "B-" or below is cause for possible dismissal. A grade of "C" is unacceptable and cannot count toward a degree.
A grade of "C" in any course will require the course to be taken over with passing grade to count toward degree.
For classes that are Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory, students must receive an 80% or higher to pass the class, anything below 80% is considered an Unsatisfactory or a failing grade.
Graduate students at Tulane University must earn a 3.00 cumulative GPA to successfully meet Tulane University’s GPA requirement for the MSW degree.
Attendance
Class sessions are an essential part of the course; attendance is mandatory. You are expected to be present, on time, and fully prepared to engage with the material, fellow students, and the instructor. If extenuating circumstances prevent you from attending class, please contact your instructor in advance of the absence. If you are unable to contact your instructor in advance, contact your instructor as soon thereafter as possible. Your attendance and participation in class is part of your overall course grade. Students may miss no more than 2 classes per semester. A 3rd absence will result in the student's final grade dropping by one letter grade. A 4th absence will result in the student failing the course.
Catalog addenda note:
Minor edits were made to this policy on 6/18/2025.
Late Assignments
For late assignments five percent will be deducted for each day past the due date and time. After 10 days past due, the assignment will not be accepted or graded. Two (2) late assignments may warrants an Academic Alert. Please check your class syllabus/canvas to see if your professor has a different late policy for specific assignments, if so the late policy listed on Syllabi/Canvas should be followed.
The purpose of due dates is to ensure that you do not fall too far behind in the class and so the professor can provide timely feedback/grading. It is also disrespectful toward the professor when multiple assignments are late. Sometimes this cannot be avoided, but in those instances the
student must communicate with the professor 24 hours in advance prior to missing the due date and the professor will decide whether to accept the assignment late
.”
Incomplete Coursework
A temporary grade of “I” (Incomplete) will only be granted in extenuating circumstances and must be submitted to the MSW Program Manager and approved by the Director of MSW Programs at least three weeks prior to the last day of class and Field Education, per the TSSW academic calendar.  Moreover, an incomplete may only be requested within the last four weeks of the semester
.
All grades of "I" related to Field Practicum & Seminar will be handled by the Field Education Department and should be presented to the Field Department Program Manager(s) for Field Department Director approval.
Approval for an incomplete is determined based on:
The student’s grade at the time of the request is a grade of “B” or better in the course.
Students requesting an incomplete must work with their instructor to outline missing assignments and a timeline to complete and submit all outstanding coursework as well as submit approved administrative documentation no later than five weeks from the last day of class. If the grade is not submitted in the time-frame, the “I” will turn to an “F” or “Unsatisfactory.”
For all matters related to a grade of "Incomplete" that are associated with Field Practicum & Seminar classes, please refer to the Field Education Appendix section of this Handbook.
Reasons a request for an incomplete grade can be denied:
If the request is submitted to the MSW Program Manager less than five business days before final grades are due, as listed on the TSSW academic calendar;
if at the time of the request the student’s overall grade is not a grade of “B” or better;
If there are more than two requests for Incompletes across the student’s tenure at TSSW, or there are any outstanding unresolved Incompletes;
If the student is in their last semester of courses. Incompletes cannot be granted in the student's final term of the degree curriculum.
The student and instructor must complete and sign an “
Incomplete Grade Contract
” and submit the document to the MSW Program Manager who will obtain approval from the Director of MSW Programs. The Director can request amendments to the plan or deny the request. Please keep in mind the following:
Students will not be allowed to start Field Practicum & Seminar if they have unresolved or outstanding Incompletes. An “I” in any semester could extend the student’s graduation date and may affect student loan eligibility.
Students will only be granted two grades of “I” during their tenure with TSSW.
If and after all requirements have been resolved within the five-week deadline, the instructor must submit a Grade Change request according to TSSW’s established grade change protocol, currently via Gibson, which will automatically be sent to the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs (Dean of TSSW in lieu of) for approval. If the Director of MSW Programs does not have an approved incomplete form, the grade change will not be processed.
If all requirements are not met, documentation is not submitted and completed by the deadline outlined on the agreement, the grade will automatically revert to a FAIL “F” or UNSATISFACTORY “U”. Any grade of “F” or “U” will be permanent and
will not
be changed.
APA/Academic Writing
All courses at TSSW require written submissions to comply with the most current version of APA writing standards.
Code of Academic
Conduct and Violations
The Tulane University Code of Academic Conduct shall apply to academic conduct of each student from the time of application for admission through the actual awarding of a degree. A violation of the Tulane University Code of Academic Conduct may occur before classes start, after classes end, or outside of classes as well as during the academic year and during periods between terms of actual enrollment, and even if the academic conduct is not discovered until after a degree is awarded. The Tulane University Code of Academic Conduct shall also apply to a student’s academic conduct even if the student withdraws from school while a disciplinary matter is pending.
The Tulane University Unified Code of Academic Conduct can be found at the following link:
Unified Code of Academic Conduct
The Tulane University Unified Code of Academic Conduct states:
"The integrity of Tulane University is based on the absolute honesty of the entire University
community in all academic endeavors. As part of the Tulane University community, graduate
students have certain responsibilities regarding work that forms the basis for the evaluation of
their academic achievement. Students are expected to be familiar with these responsibilities at
all times. No member of the University Community should tolerate any form of academic
dishonesty because the scholarly community of the University depends on the willingness of
both instructors and students to uphold this Unified Code of Graduate Student Academic
Conduct. When a violation of the Code is observed, it is the duty of every member of the
University’s academic community who has evidence of the violation to take action. Students
should take steps to uphold the Code by reporting any suspected offense to the instructor or the
Dean of their School. Students should not, under any circumstances, tolerate any form of
academic dishonesty.
In all work submitted, graduate students are expected to represent themselves honestly. The
presence of a student's name on any work submitted in completion of an academic assignment
is considered to be an assurance that the work and ideas are the result of the student's own
intellectual effort, stated in their own words, and produced independently, unless clear and
explicit acknowledgment of the sources for the work and ideas is included (with the use of
quotation marks when quoting someone else’s words and proper citations). Tools permitted,
including but not limited to computer programs, calculators, and artificial intelligence must be
noted by the professor in the assignment. This principle applies, but is not limited to, to papers,
tests, homework assignments, artistic productions, laboratory reports, computer programs, and
other academic assignments."
Academic Rights and Responsibilitie
s
All members of the academic community shall foster an environment that encourages adherence to the principles of honesty and integrity. Every student in the Tulane University School of Social Work is responsible for adhering to and upholding the Code of Academic Conduct, as outlined throughout this document. At or before student orientation, every student will sign the Code of Academic Conduct and Student Handbook Pledge and this will be held in their TSSW student file. Students are responsible for becoming familiar with the Code of Academic Conduct and for behaving in a manner consistent with its principles. Lack of familiarity either with the Code of Academic Conduct or with the application of its principles to any specific assignment will not be an acceptable excuse for non-compliance.
The faculty, administration, and staff also are responsible for adhering to and upholding the Code of Academic Conduct. Faculty, administration, and staff also have the responsibility to become thoroughly familiar with the Code of Academic Conduct and to always conduct themselves in a manner consistent with its principles. As in the case of students, lack of familiarity either with the Code of Academic Conduct or with the application of its principles will not be an acceptable excuse for non-compliance. All parties shall protect the integrity of academic materials including testing materials, software, and copyrighted documents.
Prevention of Academic Violations
The TSSW Administration and larger Tulane community intend to prevent violations of the Code of Academic Conduct. Academic violations are prevented in the following ways.
Administrative Role in Prevention
Each student will receive the TSSW Student Handbook in electronic format. It is the responsibility of each TSSW student to read the Student Handbook in its entirety as well as participate fully in the provided American Psychological Association (APA) Training course.
Faculty Role in Prevention
Each faculty member will review how the Code of Academic Conduct applies to course assignments and examinations. For example, a faculty member should give students specific directions about the form and extent of collaboration permitted (if any) in course assignments and examinations, as well as APA citation expectations. Moreover, faculty also should inform of the use of "Turnitin" and how it will apply to all academic work.
Student Role in Prevention
It is each student’s responsibility to know the Code of Academic Conduct. If a student is unsure about how a particular course assignment is affected by the Code of Academic Conduct, including current APA expectations or provisions regarding collaboration with other students on an assignment, they bear the responsibility for consulting with the instructor.
Academic Conduct Violations
Any student behavior that has the effect of interfering with education, pursuit of knowledge, and/or a fair evaluation of a student’s performance is considered a violation of the Code’s proscribed academic conduct. Any student found to have committed or to have attempted to commit the following misconduct is subject to the disciplinary sanctions outlined in the Code of Academic Conduct. Any action that indicates a lack of academic honesty and integrity shall be considered a violation of the Code of Academic Conduct.
Examples of violations include, but not limited to:
Plagiarism:
Use of ideas, data or specific passages of another person’s coursework that is “unacknowledged or falsely acknowledged presentation of another person’s ideas, expressions, or original research as one’s own coursework. Any paraphrasing or quotation must be appropriately acknowledged. Such an act often gives the reader the impression that the student has written or thought something that he or she has in fact borrowed from another. Any paraphrasing or quotation must be appropriately acknowledged. Plagiarism also includes the unacknowledged use of materials prepared by another person or agency engaged in the selling of term papers or other academic materials.
Cheating:
Unauthorized “giving, receiving, or using, or attempting to give, receive, or use unauthorized assistance, information, or study aids, to include generative AI (generative artificial intelligence), in academic coursework, or preventing or attempting to prevent another from using authorized assistance, information, or study aids. Consulting with any persons other than the course professor and teaching assistants regarding a take-home examination between the time the exam is distributed and the time it is submitted by the student for grading. Students should assume the exam is closed book; they may not consult books, notes, or any other reference material unless explicitly permitted to do so by the instructor of the course”.
Course Recording:
Recording of the live session component of a course is the discretion of the course instructor as is the sharing of PowerPoint slide decks and/or course recordings.
A student shall not record and/or post the visage of the instructor, or their learning environment peers, without explicit permission from the instructor and/or peer.
A student shall not post any resources received, through a TSSW course, on non-Tulane affiliated and/or third-party platforms / websites.
A student shall not extract any visages, tests, exams, quizzes, and/or references / resources (including PowerPoints) from Canvas or any TSSW affiliated platform and share and/or post to a non-Tulane affiliated and/or third-party platform / website.
Catalog addenda note:
Minor edits were made to this policy on 6/18/2025.
Fabrication:
Submission of contrived or altered information in any academic exercise.
False Information -
Furnishing false information to any University official, instructor, or University office relating to any academic assignment or academic issue.
Falsification of Research:
Fraudulent or deceptive generation of data or the knowing use of data gathered in such a manner.
Unauthorized Collaboration:
Unauthorized collaboration in the performance of course assignments.
Multiple Submissions:
Presentation of the same assignment, or substantively similar assignment, for credit in two distinct courses or in multiple instances of the same course.
Misrepresentation:
Performance of an academic assignment on behalf of another Student.
Falsification of Academic Records:
Forging the signature of either an instructor or advisor on registration, course waiver, practicum, or change of grade forms.
False Testimony:
Knowingly presenting false accusations or false testimony before the Academic Review Committee or its representatives.
The above examples of Academic Code of Conduct violations pertain to
all forms
of academic products including, but not limited to papers, tests/exams, knowledge checks, discussion boards, journals, homework assignments, artistic productions, laboratory reports, presentations (power points), and computer programs.
Who Should Report Academic Violations?
Any member of the University community may report Academic Violations. Instructors should complete the MSW Academic and Professional Code of Conduct Violation Form and send it to the MSW Program Manager. The form should be submitted as soon as possible after the complainant becomes aware of the relevant events or issues, preferably within five (5) business days of the discovery of the alleged violation.
Outside a Course
If a faculty member, adjunct, staff member, student, or administrator suspects that a violation of the Code of Academic Conduct has occurred outside the context of a particular course (e.g., in the case of falsification of records), they should notify the MSW Program Manager in writing preferably within five (5) business days of discovery of the alleged violation.
Within a Course
When a faculty member, a staff member, student or administrator suspects that a violation of the Code of Academic Conduct has occurred within the context of a particular class, they should immediately notify the Instructor of Record for that course. Once an instructor suspects a violation has occurred or is made aware of a potential violation, the instructor should consider the appropriateness of an informal resolution (as outlined in the section “Resolution of Academic Violations”) before providing the MSW Program Manager written notification within five business days of the discovery of the suspected violation, preferably within five (5) business days of the discovery of the alleged violation.
Level of severity for academic, as well as professional and ethical violations of the MSW and MS programs are determined by TSSW leadership. The following describes the processes that guide the school when students have not maintained or met any required academic and/or professional and ethical standards.
Resolution of APA Violations (only in response to low-level APA citation violations)
All instructors are encouraged to exercise prudent judgment with APA citation issues.  Informal resolution is the preferred course of action if: the APA problems may be related to inadequate skill/knowledge about APA and it is not meant to be intentional plagiarism. The following are examples of low-level APA violations:
If a student cites, but cited incorrectly;
If students cite secondary sources instead of primary sources;
Cite MLA, Chicago or another types of citation besides APA; or
Cite or paraphrase only one sentence when there are multiple sentences
Procedures:
The instructor will complete a Code of Academic Conduct Violation Form, for each student and each offense.
The instructor will meet with the student(s) involved to discuss the nature of the APA violation (missing or incorrect citations) and the sanction(s) they will impose including revising of the paper, grading implications and/or further APA training.
Even if the violation is informal, instructors
still
must complete and submit a
MSW Academic and Professional Standards Code of Conduct Violation Form
for each student and each offense discussing the incident and agreed upon resolution.
The form will be signed by the instructor and student(s) to acknowledge the form and discussion that took place.
If the student refuses to sign the form, the instructor will note that on the form. Signing the form is an indication that the instructor and student met and discussed the violation. It is not an admission of guilt or an indication that the student agrees with the violation.
The form should include a clause about the student being informed of the need for further training and their right to a grievance. The student should be notified that the report will be entered in their student file in case of repeated violation.
A student’s first low level violation will be treated as a warning and therefore, will not be factored if the student has another violation, especially if the violation is in the student’s first semester. If the student has several low-level APA violations in the span of two weeks, they will count as one as this is indicative of a pattern that signals the student needs more assistance. TSSW will require the student use Heartful Editor, retake the APA course, and/or complete some other assignment as identified by the faculty member so they can learn how to cite properly. If the student fails to follow through on recommendations, further action and consequences could result.
Academic Alerts
Academic Alert (Class Performance/Grade-Related Concerns)
Criteria for initiating an academic alert includes but is not limited to:
The total course grade is below a "B" (80%) at any point in the semester;
Student has missed two or more assignments;
Student has missed at least one class sessions; or
There is concern about a student’s attendance and/or academic performance.
Instructors report their concerns or issues to the MSW Program Manager or Academic Success Coach as soon as possible during the semester. The academic alert encourages the student to communicate and work with their professor and support team to ensure that academic standards are maintained.
Procedures:
An academic alert may be initiated when a student's attendance, academic performance, or other concerns related to academics are observed. When an Academic Alert is initiated by the instructor, an email to the student, the student’s assigned Program Manager, and Academic Success Coach will be generated.
The Academic Success Coach will follow-up with the student within five business days to learn of any challenges the student may be experiencing. While gathering information, the Academic Success Coach will gain permission from the student regarding what information can be shared. Student's acknowledge all employees of the Tulane School of Social Work are mandated reporters and there are certain situations that are mandated to be reported by law.
The Academic Success Coach may periodically review the student’s academic performance via Canvas to determine if additional resources may be required.
Student Accountability and Standards Review
A student will be called to a Student Accountability and Standards Review where the student may be dismissed from the Tulane School of Social Work. Examples of academic and professional performance issues that will result in a Student Accountability and Standards Review include, but are not limited to:
If the student has a cumulative GPA at or below 3.0 after final grades are posted for any given term;
If a student earns a GPA at or below 2.5 after final grades are posted for any given term;
If a student earns the following final grades at any time during their tenure while at TSSW:
Two grades of “B-” or below.
One “Unsatisfactory” (U) grade and one additional grade of “B-” or below.
If a student has more than one incomplete in the program;
When a violation of the Code of Academic Conduct has been reported;
The faculty member believes that the APA violation's severity (intended plagiarism) merits consideration of an Academic Review;
The student has violated any other honor code item (besides APA); i.e. cheating, falsification, multiple submissions, etc.;
No negotiated informal resolution around APA citation violations can be agreed upon;
It is a repeated violation of APA requirements in the program beyond their initial violation;
A field education-related issue.  Please follow the Field Education Handbook appendix for guidelines pertaining to field education matters;
A combination of academic, field, and/or reports regarding behavior in the classroom and/or field setting;
Professional disrespect of the personal rights and dignity of all persons, including other students, faculty, supervisors, and clients receiving services from the student;
Discrimination or harassment related to race, sexual orientation, gender, religion, age, etc.
;
Violating the confidentiality of the professional relationship;
Hostility and disrespect towards other students, faculty, or others at Tulane University, TSSW or while in Field Education or Seminar;
Consistent failure to demonstrate effective interpersonal skills necessary for forming professional helping relationships;
Continued inability or unwillingness to demonstrate a nonjudgmental attitude;
Unable to allow client self-determination;
Other code violations not specific outlined here; and/or
Any other violations of the NASW Code of Ethics; violations of the policies of the Tulane University Code of Student Conduct.
Student Accountability and Standards Review - Academic:
Any violation should be submitted as soon as possible after the complainant becomes aware of academic code violations or any relevant events, within five business days of the alleged violation. However, academic violations can be identified and reported at any time during the semester. Written notification by submission of the Code of Academic Conduct Violation form to the MSW Program Manager initiates the formal procedures of the School of Social Work’s Accountability and Standards Review process. The steps are as follows:
Academic Violations while semester is in progress:
The instructor will complete the MSW Academic and Professional Standards Code of Conduct Violation Form for each student for each offense/violation identified.
The instructor will meet with the student(s) involved to discuss the academic code violation, review the MSW Academic and Professional Standards Code of Conduct Violation Form and notify the student that the matter will be referred to the Academic Affairs Team.
The Code of Academic Conduct Violation Form must be signed by both the instructor and the student(s) as an indication that the instructor and student met and discussed the violation.  A first violation may serve as a warning. Signing the form is not an admission of guilt or an indication that the student agrees with the violation.
If the student refuses to sign the form, the instructor will note that on the form. The student will be notified that the report will be entered in their student file. Depending on the violation, the first violation may serve as a warning.
The instructor will submit the form to the MSW Program Manager along with any supporting or corroborating documentation.
The MSW Program Manager will present all documentation from the professor to the Academic Affairs team in the Academic Affairs weekly meeting. Together, the Program Managers, Success Coaches, Academic Advisors, and Program Directors will review the information presented and decide on next steps.  The Director of MSW Programs will recommend whether a full Student Accountability and Standards Review is warranted. The student’s instructor will be informed of this decision.
If a formal Student Accountability and Standards Review is recommended, it will be scheduled by the MSW Program Manager. The Student Accountability and Standards Review Committee may include: the Director of the MSW Programs, the Assistant Director of the MSW Programs, the MSW Program Manager, the MSW Academic Advisor, the MSW Student Success Coach , a Field Education Program Manager, or other member of the Field Education Team and three voting Faculty. Please note, the instructor/professor who filed the violation will provide information at the beginning of the Review but will not be part of the formal Commiittee.
The Student Accountability and Standards Review Committee will meet 15 minutes before the student arrives to discuss the case and ensure all parties are aware of the Review procedures and understand roles and responsibilities.  If the Review is postponed for any reason, the student will be notified. The instructor who submitted the violation will present information on it during the first 15 minutes and will not attend while the student is present. The student will then present to the Review Committee and will answer any questions asked of them regarding the violation that was filed.
Once all information is presented, the Review Committee will temporarily excuse the student from the meeting to discuss the information shared and hear recommendations from the Review Committee, including any performance outcomes deemed necessary to correct the behavior(s) and continue in the program. Once the discussion is concluded, the Student Accountability and Standards Review Moderator will call for a deciding vote from the three voting faculty members.  Non-voting faculty members may suggest an outcome or provide information but will not have a vote in the final decision. Only the voting faculty members will have a vote.
The student will return to the meeting to answer any additional questions and to hear the decision.
The MSW Program Manager will complete the Review Outcome Form. The form will be circulated to the voting faculty members to confirm the information included in the form is inclusive and reflects accurately the discussion held and outcomes. The MSW Program Manager will send written communication of the meeting outcome in the form of an email within 5-7 business days of the date of the Review to the student’s Tulane email. A certified letter will follow to the address on file in the student’s Tulane record. No other written, audio, or video documentation will be provided. This communication will include the following (as applicable):
the Code of Academic Conduct Violation Form;
the Academic Review Outcome Form/Committee decision;
the re-entry plan for a student being suspended;
the date of exit from the program for a student being dismissed from the program; and
Instructions to information for filing a grievance should the student contest the Committee decision, including the Grievance and Appeals Policy.
Documentation:
The MSW Program Manager will receive all relevant documentation from the instructor prior to the Review. The Committee will meet 15 minutes before the student arrives to review the documentation and decide if a Review is appropriate or if the committee members need more information/documentation to proceed.
Documentation of all Academic Reviews and Professional Standards Review decisions where a student has been judged in violation of the Academic Code of Conduct will be maintained in the student’s file in a shared MSW Program folder. The record will include a copy of all documentation submitted to the Review Committee, the Review Outcome Form, and the letter to the student. TSSW will retain a copy of the permanent record. All documentation related to the violation of the Code of Academic Conduct may be reported to the University Office of Student Affairs.
Who can attend Reviews?
Students are not allowed to bring outside parties to the hearing. In special circumstances, prior notification or special consideration will be given. At no time are lawyers allowed to attend. If a student makes a request for an attorney to attend or arrives at the Review with an attorney present, the hearing will be cancelled and referred to Tulane University legal department.
Academic Violations during Review of Final Grades:
The MSW Program Manager (MSW Academic Affairs) or the MSW Field Program Manager (Field Education) will present all documentation relevant to final grades in the Academic Affairs weekly meeting and decide on final steps based on final grades presented.
A formal Student Accountability and Standards Review  will be scheduled and the Student Accountability and Standards Review Committee may include: the Director of the MSW Programs, the Assistant Director of the MSW Programs, the MSW Program Manager, the MSW Academic Advisor, the MSW Student Success Coach, a Field Education Team Program Manager, or other member of the Field Education Department and three voting Faculty.
The student will receive an email 72 hours before the Review's established date and time.
The Review Committee will meet 15 minutes before the student arrives to discuss the case and ensure all parties are aware of the Review procedures and understand roles and responsibilities.  If the hearing is postponed for any reason, the student will be notified. The Committee will wait 15 minutes for the student to arrive. Should the student not attend, the Student Accountability and Standards Review will commence, and a decision will be made. The decision will be communicated to the student by email to the student’s Tulane email.
The instructor who submitted the violation will present it during the first 15 minutes and will not attend when the student presents. The student will then present to the Student Accountability and Standards Review Committee and will answer any questions asked of them regarding the violation that was filed. Once all information is presented by the student and the instructor, the Review Committee will temporarily excuse the student from the meeting to discuss the information shared and hear recommendations from the Review Committee, including any performance outcomes deemed necessary to correct the behavior(s) and continue in the program. Once the discussion is concluded, the Review Committee member identified as the Moderator will call for a deciding vote from the three voting faculty members.  Other Committee members may suggest an outcome or provide information but will not have a vote in the final decision. Only the voting faculty members will have a vote.
The student will return to the meeting to answer any additional questions and to hear the decision.
The MSW Program Manager will complete the Review Outcome Form. The form will be circulated to the voting faculty members to confirm the information included in the form is inclusive and reflects accurately the discussion held and outcomes. The MSW Program Manager will send written communication of the meeting outcome in the form of an email within five-seven business days of the date of the Review to the student’s Tulane email. A certified letter will follow to the address on file in the student’s Tulane record. No other written, audio, or video documentation will be provided. This communication will include the following (as applicable):
a Code of Academic Conduct Violation Form;
the Academic Review Outcome Form/Committee decision;
the re-entry plan for a student being suspended;
the date of exit from the program for a student being dismissed from the program; and
Instructions to information for filing a grievance should the student contest the Committee decision, including the Grievance and Appeals Policy.
Documentation:
The MSW Program Manager will receive all relevant documentation from the instructor prior to the Review.
Documentation of all Academic Reviews and Professional Standards Review decisions where a student has been judged in violation of the Code of Academic Conduct will be maintained in the student’s file in a shared MSW Program folder. The record will include a copy of all documentation submitted to the Review Committee, the Review Outcome Form, and the letter to the student. TSSW will retain a copy of the permanent record. All documentation related to the violation of the Code of Academic Conduct may be reported to the University Office of Student Affairs.
Who can attend Reviews?
Students are not allowed to bring outside parties to the hearing. In special circumstances, prior notification or special consideration will be given. At no time are lawyers allowed to attend. If a student makes a request for an attorney to attend or arrives at the Student Accountability and Standards Review with an attorney present, the hearing will be cancelled and referred to Tulane University legal department.
Possible Outcome(s) of a Student Accountability and Standards Review:
The Tulane School of Social Work has the authority to determine whether a student will be allowed to continue enrollment in their degree program. A Student Accountability and Standards Review may include but are not limited to the following outcomes:
Creation of a Personal Success Plan;
Mandatory advising with an Academic Success Coach.
Academic probation;
Mandatory advising with an Academic Success Coach.
Resubmit an assignment in question to receive a possible revised grade.
Re-enroll in a course where a final grade of “C” or below was earned.  A final grade of “B” or higher grade must be earned in the course's re-enrollment before the student can continue with other subsequent curriculum courses. Prerequisite classes MUST be passed for a student to continue matriculate through the Program.
Suspension for up to one year/three semesters. If suspension is the outcome of a Student Accountability and Standards Review, the student shall stop taking classes AND stop attending both field practicum and Field Education Seminar.
Be asked to participate in other activities as assigned by the committee that could include writing a graduate level paper related to matter at hand, complete a live/synchronous CEU training related to matter at hand, or other as deemed appropriate by the Committee.
Dismissal from program. If dismissal is the outcome of a Student Accountability and Standards Review, the student shall stop taking classes AND stop attending both field practicum and Field Education Seminar.
Personal Success Plan (including but not limited to):
Mandatory meetings with Academic Success Coach;
Creating a time management plan with the student success coach;
Other developmental actions as assigned.
Academic Probation
A final grade of “B-” or below will initiate a student to be placed on academic probation.
Any student placed on academic probation must develop a Personal Success Plan with an Academic Success Coach.
After one semester on academic probation, the student will be reassessed for satisfactory completion of their Personal Success Plan, cumulative GPA, and final grades. If the student’s academic performance does not meet the program requirements, a Student Accountability and Standards Review may be scheduled.  The outcomes of the Student Accountability and Standards Review as listed above will apply.
Suspension
The length of an academic suspension from TSSW could range from one to three semesters depending on the outcome of the Student Accountability and Standards Review. A student may only be placed on suspension once during their tenure at TSSW. A student reinstated after their academic suspension shall be placed on academic probation for one semester. Further violations of academic standards may result in dismissal. If suspension is the outcome of a Student Accountability and Standards Review, the student shall stop taking classes AND stop attending both field practicum and Field Education Seminar.
Dismissal
TSSW students can be dismissed for any of the reasons outlined in this handbook. Students may reapply to return to TSSW following a dismissal after one calendar year. A student may reapply to the program through the regular admissions process.  Students should be aware that all relevant information surrounding the student’s dismissal from TSSW will be considered. This will include grades at the time of dismissal if the dismissal was due to academic requirements not being met.  All re-applications are reviewed by the faculty. If the application is approved, the start date will be determined in consultation with the student’s MSW Academic Advisor. Coursework taken at another college or university during the dismissal period is not transferable to TSSW.  If dismissal is the outcome of a Student Accountability and Standards Review, the student shall stop taking classes AND stop attending both field practicum and Field Education Seminar. Returning to TSSW following a second dismissal is not allowed.
Student Accountability and Standards Review Appeal Process
A student may appeal the decision rendered by a Student Accountability and Standards Review by adhering to the following steps:
1. The student may appeal against the decision of a Student Accountability and Standards Review by responding to the TSSW faculty or staff member identified in the student’s outcome letter. The student’s appeal must be received, in writing, within five business days of receiving the outcome letter sent via email.
2. The Student Accountability and Standards Review Appellate Committee will review the request.
3. The Student Accountability and Standards Review Appellate Committee determines whether or not the the appeal has merit. The student will be notified of the committee's decision in writing and that decision will be sent to the student’s Tulane email account.
4. The student may appeal against the decision rendered by the Student Accountability and Standards Review Committee by submitting a second and final appeal to the Dean of the Tulane School of Social Work.
Student Accountability and Standards - Professional and Ethical Standards
All students enrolled in a social work program must abide by the National Association of Social Workers (NASW) code of Ethics which governs social workers’ professional and ethical behavior and values. Students must uphold ethical standards of practice established by NASW in the Code of Ethics, maintain professional performance standards required to be licensed as a social worker, and meet the practice behaviors established by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE). Violation of these standards may be identified by faculty, adjunct instructors, or staff members. Violation of these standards includes but is not limited to:
Failure to meet generally accepted standards of professional conduct as outlined in NASW Code of Ethics and may include personal integrity or emotional stability required for professional practice; Tulane University’s Office of Student Affairs/Case Management may be involved for any matters related to emotional or mental stability.
Failure to demonstrate effective interpersonal skills necessary to perform professional helping relationships;
Failure to adhere to the NASW Code of Ethics;
Has been found guilty of criminal misconduct that affects the student’s ability to be licensed as a social worker; or
Displays inappropriate or disruptive behavior* toward clients, other students, faculty, staff, or other affiliates. Tulane University’s Office of Student Affairs/Case Management may be involved for any matters related to or inappropriate or disruptive displays of behavior*
*The Tulane Unified Code of Graduate Student Academic Conduct defines this as “any student behavior that has the effect of interfering with education, the pursuit of knowledge, and/or a fair evaluation of a student’s performance is considered a violation of the Code’s prescribed academic conduct.” (p.5).
Resolution of Professional and Ethical Standards
Informal Resolution (only if it is a minor professional standards violation)
All are encouraged to exercise prudent judgment with minor professional standard violations. A professional standard violation is considered minor if the harm is minimal and manageable. Examples of minor violations include, but are not limited to:
First incidence of a student being disrespectful to another student, faculty member, adjunct, or staff which does not cause harm; or
A student exercises bad judgment in Filed Practicum & Seminar which does not cause serious harm or other violations.
Procedure:
Meet with the student(s) involved to discuss the actions of concern.
The individual filing the violation must complete and submit the
MSW Academic and Professional Standards Code of Conduct Violation Form f
or each student and each offense discussing the incident and agreed upon resolution. Please note whether there is a need for the student to have further training. The student should be notified that the form will be entered in their student file for documentation and for reference in case of future violations.
The first low level ethical standard violation will not count against student(s) should they have another violation, especially if the violation is in the student’s first semester.
Possible Outcomes:
Mandatory Faculty Advising Session - A mandatory faculty advising session will be the outcome if there are minor concerns (not including violations) surrounding the NASW Code of Ethics or TSSW Professional Standards.
Complete an assignment or read material related to the offense - The instructor or faculty advisor may require the student to complete an assignment or read an article to reinforce concepts related to the NASW Code of Ethics or TSSW Professional Standards.
Complete Continuing Education (CE), webinar, or other training - The MSW Program Administrative team may require completion of an approved CE training, webinar or other training where the student must provide a written summary of relevance to violation of professional or ethical standard.
Formal Resolution (Major Professional Standards Violations)
A Student Accountability and Standards Review will be called for major professional standards and ethical violations. Examples of professional performance issues that may result in dismissal from the program include, but are not limited to:
Professional disrespect of the personal rights and dignity of all persons, including students, faculty, supervisors, staff, and clients receiving services from the student;
Discrimination or harassment related to race, sexual orientation, gender, religion, age;
Violating the confidentiality of the professional relationship;
Hostility and disrespect towards students, faculty, staff, or others affiliated with Tulane University or within a Field Education placement;
Consistent failure to demonstrate effective interpersonal skills necessary for forming professional helping relationships;
Continued inability or unwillingness to demonstrate a nonjudgmental attitude;
Unable to allow client self-determination; or
Any other violations of the NASW Code of Ethics; violations of the policies of the Tulane University Code of Student Conduct.
Procedure:
A Professional and Ethical Standard Form is submitted identifying the concern.
Faculty or a member of the MSW Program Team shall meet with the student to discuss the violation and review the MSW Academic and Professional Standards Code of Conduct Violation that delineates the reasons (evidence) detailing the violation. The instructor or other individual filing the form and student will sign it to acknowledge the discussion. If the student refuses to sign the form, the form should reflect accordingly.  Signing the form is an indication that the instructor or the person filing the form and student met and discussed the violation. It is not an admission of guilt or an indication that the student agrees with the violation.
The Professional and Ethical Standard Form will be submitted to the MSW Program Manager along with any supporting or corroborating documentation.
The MSW Program Manager will inquire with the student to see if there is any additional information that should be brought to light to ensure that academic affairs team has all relevant information from the instructors, classmates, and/or student's vantage point.
The MSW Program Manager will present the reported violation at the weekly academic affairs team meeting.
Together, the MSW Program Managers, Academic Advisors, Success Coaches, and Program Directors will discuss and recommend whether a full Academic Review is recommended.  If a formal Academic Review is recommended, the Professional Standards Review Committee may include the individual bringing forth the evidence, the Director of the MSW Programs, the Assistant Director of the MSW Programs the Dean of Student Experience, the MSW Program Manager, an Academic Advisor, Academic Success Coach and at least three voting faculty members. Other committee members may include representatives from other University offices and/or program administrators from the Field Education Team.
The committee will meet 15 minutes before the student is invited to join to review the documentation relevant to the Review.
Once the Review Committee has heard separately from the individual filing the violation and the student, the Committee will excuse the student from the meeting to discuss the evidence and recommendations, including any performance outcomes deemed necessary to correct the behavior(s) and continue in the program. Once the discussion is concluded, the Committee will call for a vote by the voting faculty members. Note: Only the voting faculty members will have a vote. Others Committee members may give an opinion or provide information but will not have a vote in the final decision.
The student will then join the meeting again to discuss the outcome of the Student Accountability and Standards Review.
The MSW Program Manager will complete the Review Outcome Form. The form will be circulated to the voting faculty members to confirm the information included in the form is inclusive and reflects accurately the discussion held and outcomes. The MSW Program Manager will send written communication of the meeting outcome in the form of an email within five-seven business days of the date of the Review to the student’s Tulane email. A certified letter will follow to the address on file in the student’s Tulane record. No other written, audio, or video documentation will be provided. This communication will include the following (as applicable):
the Academic Code of Conduct Violation Form
the Academic Review Outcome Form/Committee decision;
the re-entry plan for a student being suspended;
the date of exit from the program for a student being dismissed from the program.
Instructions to information for filing a grievance should the student contest the Committee decision, including the Grievance and Appeals Policy
Documentation
The MSW Program Manager will receive all relevant documentation from the instructor prior to the Review.
Documentation of all Academic Reviews and Professional Standards Review decisions where a student has been judged in violation of the Academic Code of Conduct will be maintained in the student’s file in a shared MSW Program folder. The record will include a copy of all documentation submitted to the Review Committee, the Review Outcome Form, and the letter to the student. TSSW will retain a copy of the permanent record. All documentation related to the violation of the Code of Academic Conduct may be reported to the University Office of Student Affairs.
Who can attend Reviews?
Students are not allowed to bring outside parties to the hearing. In special circumstances, prior notification or special consideration will be given. At no time are lawyers allowed to attend. If a student makes a request for an attorney to attend or arrives at the Review with an attorney present, the hearing will be cancelled and referred to Tulane University legal department.
Outcomes of a Student Accountability and Standards Review:
The Tulane School of Social Work has the authority to determine whether a student will be allowed to continue enrollment in their degree program. A Student Accountability and Standards Review may include but are not limited to the following outcomes:
Creation of a Personal Success Plan;
Mandatory advising with an Academic Success Coach
Academic probation
Mandatory advising with an Academic Success Coach.
Resubmit an assignment in question to receive a possible revised grade.
Re enroll in a course where a final grade of “C” or below was earned.  A final grade of “B” or higher grade must be earned in the course's re-enrollment before the student can continue with other subsequent curriculum courses. Prerequisite classes MUST be passed for a student to continue matriculate through the Program.
Suspension for up to one year/three semesters. If suspension is the outcome of a Student Accountability and Standards Review, the student shall stop taking classes AND stop attending both field practicum and Field Education Seminar.
Be asked to participate in other activities as assigned by the committee that could include writing a graduate level paper related to matter at hand, complete a live/synchronous CEU training related to matter at hand, or other as deemed appropriate by the Committee.
Dismissal from program. If dismissal is the outcome of a Student Accountability and Standards Review, the student shall stop taking classes AND stop attending both field practicum and Field Education Seminar.
Personal Success Plan (including but not limited to)
Mandatory meetings with Academic Success Coach;
Creating a time management plan with the student success coach;
Other developmental actions as assigned.
Academic Probation
A final grade of “B-” or below will initiate a student to be placed on academic probation;
Any student placed on academic probation must develop a Personal Success Plan with an Academic Success Coach;
After one semester on academic probation, the student will be reassessed for satisfactory completion of their Personal Success Plan, cumulative GPA, and final grades. If the student’s academic performance does not meet the program requirements, a Student Accountability and Standards Review may be scheduled.  The outcomes of the Student Accountability and Standards Review as listed above will apply.
Suspension
The length of an academic suspension from TSSW could range from one to three semesters depending on the outcome of the Student Accountability and Standards Review. A student may only be placed on suspension once during their tenure at TSSW. A student reinstated after their academic suspension shall be placed on academic probation for one semester. Further violations of academic standards may result in dismissal. If suspension is the outcome of a Student Accountability and Standards Review, the student shall stop taking classes AND stop attending both field practicum and Field Education Seminar.
Dismissal
TSSW students can be dismissed for any of the reasons outlined in this handbook. Students may reapply to return to TSSW following a dismissal after one calendar year. A student may reapply to the program through the regular admissions process.  Students should be aware that all relevant information surrounding the student’s dismissal from TSSW will be considered. This will include grades at the time of dismissal if the dismissal was due to academic requirements not being met.  Faculty review all applications from students who reapply. If the application is approved, the start date will be determined in consultation with the student’s MSW Academic Advisor. Coursework taken at another college or university during the dismissal period is not transferable to TSSW.  If dismissal is the outcome of a Student Accountability and Standards Review, the student shall stop taking classes AND stop attending both field practicum and Field Education Seminar. Returning to TSSW following a second dismissal is not allowed.
Reapplication/Reinstatement
Students will be eligible to reapply after one calendar year. Students will reapply the same way they first applied to TSSW. All academic and professional behavior at TSSW will be factored into the admissions decision.
**If the student is dismissed a second time, this dismissal is permanent and any applications to return to TSSW will be denied.
Academic Grievances
The Tulane School of Social Work supports in principle and in practice the right of any student to initiate a grievance/complaint regarding grades or any other cause affecting their academic experience. This policy covers student grievances of any grade or other concerns related to the course.
For Course or Assignment Grade Grievances
Within ten business days of receiving official notice of a course grade or for any other action that affects the student’s educational experience, the student should attempt to resolve the grievance by approaching the instructor who is the subject of the complaint.
If the student and the instructor cannot arrive at a mutually satisfactory resolution, a formal grievance grievance should be sent by the student to the MSW Program Manager within ten business days of receiving official notice of the course grade using the Grade Grievance and Appeal Form. To maintain the timeline of the overall processes, the student shall communicate any issues they may have while trying to connect with the instructor.
A Grade Grievance and Appeal Committee will be chaired by the Director of the MSW Programs and may also include any of the following:  the student, the Dean of Student Experience/Affairs, the MSW Program Manager, a member of the Field Education Team, an Academic Advisor, a Student Success Coach and three Faculty Representatives.
The student must appear at the meeting to provide their rationale and any supporting information. If the student does not attend the meeting within 15 minutes of the start time, the appeal will be forfeited.
The MSW Program Manager will collect the Grade Grievance and Appeal Form
from the student and any written documentation from the student and instructor for the committee to review.
The Committee shall make a formal decision at the end of the meeting and the decision will be communicated to the student. The decision will be followed by written communication, via the student’s Tulane University email, within 5-7 business days following the meeting. The Committee records will contain the decision and an explanation of the grounds upon which the decision was reached. All documentation will be permanently stored in the TSSW Student File.
Appeal of the Grade Grievance Committee’s Decision
If the student is dissatisfied with the Committee’s decision, the student may appeal to the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs (or the Dean in lieu of) within five (5) business days of receiving the decision.
In the appeal to the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs (or the Dean in lieu of), the student should provide a written statement explaining their rationale and details as to why they disagree with the committee’s decision. The primary purpose of the appeal at this level is to enable the student to demonstrate that one of the following may have occurred during these proceedings:
A sanction is grossly disproportionate to the offense.
Specified procedural error, or errors, in the interpretation of University regulations are so substantial as to deny the charged student a fair hearing.
New and significant evidence appears which could not have been discovered by a student before or during the original hearing.
Evidence appears to suggest that the finding was arbitrary and capricious.
An arbitrary and capricious finding would be one not supported by any evidence.
The Associate Dean of Academic Affairs (or the Dean in lieu of) will notify the Program Director, Program Manager, and the student in writing of their decision. The Program Director will notify the committee of the Associate Dean’s (or the Dean in lieu of) decision.
Appeal of the Associate Dean's Grade Appeal Decision
If the student is dissatisfied with the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs (or the Dean in lieu of) decision, the student may appeal to the Dean within five (5) business days of receiving the decision.
In the appeal to the Dean, the student should provide a written statement explaining their rationale and details as to why they disagree with the committee’s decision. The primary purpose of the appeal at this level is to enable the student to demonstrate that one of the following may have occurred during these proceedings:
A sanction is grossly disproportionate to the offense.
Specified procedural error or errors in the interpretation of University regulations are so substantial as to deny the charged student a fair hearing.
New and significant evidence appears which could not have been discovered by a student before or during the original hearing.
Evidence appears to suggest that the finding was arbitrary and capricious.
An arbitrary and capricious finding would be one not supported by any evidence.
The Dean shall seek to settle the matter within five (5) business days and shall notify the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs (or the Dean in lieu of), and the student in writing of their decision. The Dean will notify the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, The Director of the MSW Programs, the MSW Program Manager, and the student in writing of their decision.
Student Appeal of Dean’s Grade Appeal Decision
If the student is dissatisfied with the Dean’s ruling, the student may file, within five (5) business days of receiving the Dean’s decision, a written appeal with the Tulane University Senate Committee on Academic Rights, Freedom and Responsibilities of Students. The student should contact the Assistant Vice President & Dean of Students, Student Resources and Support Services
Instructor Appeal of the Grade Appeal
If the instructor believes that their academic freedom or academic responsibilities have been affected by the Associate Dean/Dean’s ruling, the instructor may appeal to the Faculty Grievance Committee of the School. No grade may be changed or final action taken until the instructor’s appeal process has been completed.
Student Appeal of Dean’s Appeal Decision
If the student is dissatisfied with the Dean’s ruling, the student may file, within five (5) business days of receiving the Dean’s decision, a written appeal.  Per the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies (OGPS), if the student is not satisfied with the decision reached by the school, they may appeal to the provost or provost’s designee. The provost or their designee will review the appeal and the decisions made by the department and school and return a decision within five business days. The decision of the provost is final.
If faculty member who requested the student be brought to a Student Accountability and Standards Review believes that his or her academic freedom or academic responsibilities have been affected by the Dean’s ruling, the faculty member may appeal to the Faculty Grievance Committee of the School. The faculty member's appeal must be made within 10 business days of the action provoking the appeal. If the faculty member is dissatisfied with the committee of peers’ decision regarding his or her academic freedom or responsibilities, the teacher may appeal to the Senate Committee on Faculty Tenure, Freedom and Responsibility. That appeal also must be made within 10 business days of the action provoking it. No review decision may be changed until the teacher’s appeal process has been completed.
If the faculty who requested the student be brought to review believes that his or her academic freedom or academic responsibilities have been affected by the ruling of the Senate Committee on Academic Rights, Freedom and Responsibilities of Students, the matter shall be referred to the Senate Committee on Faculty Tenure, Freedom and Responsibility.
In cases of conflict regarding the decision of the divisional peer committee and the Senate Committee on Academic Freedom and Responsibility of Students, the matter shall be referred to the Senate Committee on Faculty Tenure, Freedom and Responsibility. In cases of conflict regarding the decisions of the Senate Committee on Faculty, Tenure, Freedom and Responsibility and either of the other committees stemming from the deliberations described above or in this item, the committees at odds shall meet jointly to discuss the issue. The ultimate findings of the two committees shall be forwarded to the President of the University within 10 business days. All non-academic concerns may be reported to the University Office of Student Affairs.
Leave of Absence, Withdrawal, and Medical Withdrawal/Leave
Leave of Absence
A Leave of Absence (LOA) may be requested by a student before the next term begins in the academic calendar. A LOA implies the student is planning to return to TSSW at a predetermined date. During a Leave of Absence, a student does not attend Field Education Placement.
The maximum amount of time for a LOA is one calendar year. If a student takes a Leave of Absence and re-enters within one calendar year, the student must follow the procedures below.
Procedures
An email message must be sent to an Academic Advisor outlining general reasons for requesting an LOA. A doctor’s statement is not necessary for an LOA. If a student does not inform an Academic Advisor of their intentions to take an LOA from TSSW, they will be in violation of TSSW’s Enrollment Policy.
If applicable, the student should contact their financial aid counselor to discuss how a Leave of Absence may affect financial aid.
If the student is registered in courses for the upcoming semester, the student must remove the courses from their schedule.
For Field Education courses, the student should contact the Field Education Department and alert them of the impending Leave of Absence for guidance.
Returning to Tulane - Deadlines for Submitting Documentation
The deadline to petition to return from a Leave of Absence, will be stated in the “Return to TSSW” email sent by an Academic Advisor.
Next Steps and re-entering TSSW within one year
The student must respond to “The Return to TSSW” email that will be sent from an Academic Advisor. This email will be sent to all students once on a LOA and to the student’s Tulane email.  The student must read and follow the directions outlined in "the “Return to TSSW” email and adhere to the deadline outlined. The student must attend the live orientation for the semester they intend to return.
The student must complete the APA mini-course, and Asynchronous Orientation for the semester they intend to return
Re-entry after one year
If the student wishes to return after one year or more, the student must re-apply to the program.
Faculty will review all students who reapply to a TSSW degree program.
If readmission is granted after one year, the student’s previous credits are usually counted. However, the student may be required to take additional credits if major curricular changes have occurred, or admission policies or other requirements have significantly changed.
No credits can be counted after seven (7) years to ensure that current practice information is learned.
Each case will be considered carefully by the Dean, Associate Dean of Academic Affairs and The Office of Admissions to assure integrity of the student’s education for beginning professional social work.
Withdraw: Voluntary
In the event a student must withdraw from all currently enrolled courses and pursue a Voluntary Withdrawal (VW), the student must contact their Academic Success Coach and Academic Advisor to discuss what a VW entails and how this will impact their respective curriculum path, field placement and date of degree completion.  Students must also consult with the Office of Financial Aid to discuss how a VW may affect their financial aid award, if applicable. TSSW will adhere to the dates identified in the TSSW Academic Calendar to determine the grade reflected on the student's transcript. Based on dates within the TSSW Academic Calendar for each individual term, students will receive a grade of "W" (Withdrawal/without academic penalty) if the withdrawal occurs after the last day to receive a 25% tuition refund until the last day identified on the academic calendar as the last day to withdraw without academic penalty.  Withdrawals initiated after the last day to withdraw without academic penalty will result in a grade of "WF" (Withdraw/Fail) reflected on their transcript. It is the student's responsibility to familiarize themselves with the dates identified on TSSW's Academic Calendar.
Procedures
An email message must be sent to an Academic Advisor outlining general reasons for requesting a voluntary withdrawal.  A doctor’s statement is not necessary for a voluntary withdrawal. If a student does not inform an Academic Advisor of their intentions to take a voluntary withdrawal from TSSW, they will violate TSSW’s Continuous Enrollment Policy.
If applicable, the student should contact their financial aid counselor to discuss how a withdrawal may affect financial aid.
If the student is registered in courses for the upcoming semester, the student must remove the courses from their schedule.
For Field Education courses, the student should contact the Field Education Department and alert them of the impending withdrawal.
Returning to Tulane - Deadlines for Submitting Documentation
The deadline to petition to return from a withdrawal, will be stated in the “Return to TSSW” email sent by an Academic Advisor.
Next Steps and re-entering TSSW within one year
The student must respond to “The Return to TSSW” email that will be sent from an Academic Advisor. This email will be sent to all students once on withdrawal and to the student’s Tulane email.
The student must read and follow the directions outlined in the “Return to TSSW” email and adhere to the deadline outlined.
The student must attend the live orientation for the semester they intend to return.
The student must complete the APA mini-course, and Asynchronous Orientation for the semester they intend to return.
To re-enter after one year
If the student wishes to return after one year or more, the student must re-apply to the program.
Faculty will review all students who reapply to a TSSW degree program.
If readmission is granted after one year, the student’s previous credits are usually counted. However, the student may be required to take additional credits if major curricular changes have occurred, or admission policies or other requirements have significantly changed.
No credits can be counted after seven (7) years to ensure that current practice information is learned.
Withdrawal: Medical Leaves and Medical Withdrawals
Students may experience physical, psychological, and substance use conditions that may significantly impact their ability to complete their academic pursuits. During such circumstances, a medical withdrawal and leave of absence from the University provides the student with an opportunity to remain a matriculated student while also allowing time away for appropriate treatment and recovery. A medical withdrawal may occur in situations of acute or chronic psychosocial stress or physical illness that significantly impairs the student’s ability to meet the academic and professional requirements. It is given only when a student is withdrawing from all classes.
The maximum time for a medical withdrawal is one year. Beyond the one year deadline, the student must re-apply to the Tulane School of Social Work to continue their studies. Medical withdrawals, medical leaves, and returns are initiated through Tulane University Case Management & Victim Support Services (CMVSS). Also, any student who chooses to pursue a medical withdrawal or medical leave cannot enroll in TSSW courses for at least one semester.
Lastly, any student whose medical withdrawal or leave has been approved must adhere to the established TSSW deadlines to resume their studies.
Field hours accrued during the term when a Medical Leave is taken will not be counted toward the total count of field education hours required for the degree.
Returning to Tulane - Deadlines for Submitting Documentation
A student's return to TSSW following a medical withdrawal/medical leave will be discussed with the Academic Advisor only after a student has been cleared to return to TSSW by Tulane University's Case Management and Victim Services.
Next Steps
Once the student has been cleared by CMVSS to return to TSSW, they must contact an Academic Advisor to discuss next steps.
The student must attend the live orientation for the semester they intend to return.
The student must complete the APA mini-course, and the Asynchronous Orientation for the semester they intend to return to TSSW.
To re-enter within one year - A return to TSSW will solely depend on CMVSS and TSSW will respond accordingly.
If the student wishes to return after one year or more, the student must re-apply to the program.
Faculty will review all students who reapply to a TSSW degree program.
If readmission is granted after one year, the student’s previous credits are usually counted. However, the student may be required to take additional credits if major curricular changes have occurred, or admission policies or other requirements have significantly changed.
No credits can be counted after seven (7) years to ensure that current practice information is learned.
Each case will be considered carefully by the Faculty Reapplication Committee to assure integrity of the student’s education for beginning professional social work.
Student Ambassadors
All students applying to work as a Student Ambassador must have completed their first semester in TSSW and be in good academic standing with the school. Part-time students must have successfully completed their second semester at TSSW and be in good standing with the school. Students are eligible to apply for a Student Ambassador position during their first semester. To apply, students must be in good academic standing.
Graduation Requirements and Ceremonies
Certification of Degree
An MSW or MS degree will not be certifed for conferral until/unless all degree requirements are met for the specified degree.
Certification of a degree refers to the process by which the specific degree requirements are confirmed, and the degree is certified through the Tulane University Registrar.
A student must complete an “Application for Degree” through the student’s Gibson page by the communicated deadlines for each graduation cycle.  The Academic Affairs Team for the identified degree program will review the students’ records to assure that all credit hours, curriculum requirements, and minimum cumulative GPA of 3.00 are completed, with no grade of “Incomplete” pending. For a student to receive their diploma and/or final transcript, all University holds must be cleared. Students must work directly with the appropriate office to address any issues related to any University hold.
Graduation:
Graduation refers to the commencement ceremony that celebrates the successful completion of degree requirements. The Tulane School of Social Work commencement ceremony is held in December of each year. TSSW does not hold a spring or summer graduation ceremony. All graduates within the calendar year (Spring, Summer, & Fall terms) are invited to attend the TSSW Commencement in December. Summer and Fall graduates of the previous year, along with Spring graduates are also welcome to participate in the ceremony in May of each year. For example, a student completing degree requirements in the summer 2023, fall 2023 or spring 2024 is all allowed to participate in the larger May 2024 Tulane Commencement ceremony.
Unified Commencement
ceremony in May of each year. For example, a student completing degree requirements in the summer 2023, fall 2023 or spring 2024 is all allowed to participate in the larger May 2024 Tulane Commencement ceremony.
Please note, individual graduate names are not called, nor do graduates walk across a stage at the Tulane University Unified Commencement Ceremony in May. All students MUST wear the proper academic attire (i.e. cap and gown). Academic attire may be ordered at the
Tulane Bookstore.
Information related to the Unified Commencement is distributed and communicated by the Graduation office on the uptown campus. TSSW does not have detailed information on those ceremonies.
Student Affairs
Student Government Association (SGA)
The Student Government Association (SGA) represents the concerns and needs of TSSW degree-seeking students to the school’s administration. The Student Government Association (SGA) at the Tulane School of Social Work (TSSW) is the official voice of all graduate and professional students at TSSW. The fundamental values of the social work profession, expressing the worth, dignity, and uniqueness indigenous to all persons as well as their rights and opportunities, shall be reflected in the expression of the actions of the organization
The SGA is committed to supporting student development in all systems; promote understanding among students, faculty, administration and alumni; maintain professional standards and ethics; and ensure to the best of its ability the inclusion of all of the student body including full time students, part time students, online students; masters or doctoral level students, advanced standing students, social work students, Disaster Resilience Leadership Academy students, and transfer students for any and all degree-seeking programs.
The TSSW SGA is affiliated with the Associated Student Body (ASB) of Tulane University. All students enrolled at TSSW are eligible for membership in the Student Government Association. All students enrolled in a degree-seeking course of study at TSSW are considered members of the SGA and encouraged to participate in meetings and/or events. There are no fees required as part of the membership of the TSSW SGA.
The TSSW student body is also a member of GAPSA. The Graduate and Professional Student Association (GAPSA) is the unifying body of the graduate and professional divisions of Tulane University. GAPSA develops and furthers the scholastic, professional, social, and public service interests of all graduate and professional students by promoting an understanding amongst students, faculty, and administrators.
Equal Opportunity and Anti-Discrimination
Our equal opportunity and anti-discrimination policies are fundamental to our commitment to a respectful and supportive environment. We prohibit discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, shared ancestry, and other protected characteristics. By adhering to all relevant laws and best practices, we strive to ensure that every individual has equal access to opportunities and is treated with dignity and fairness.
Student Affairs at Tulane School of Social Work is committed to supporting and enhancing the academic experience by facilitating student success, connecting students to opportunities for personal growth, and by providing students with essential skills that allow them to excel as they move through and beyond Tulane.
FERPA
Tulane University complies with the provision of the Family Education Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (Buckley Amendment), which was enacted to protect the privacy of education records, to establish the right of students to inspect and review their education records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of inaccurate or misleading data. The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) affords students certain rights with respect to their education records. They are:
The right to inspect and review the student’s education records within 45 days of the day the University receives a request for access
. Students should submit to the registrar, dean, head of the academic department, or other appropriate official, written requests that identify the record(s) they wish to inspect. The University official will arrange access and notify the student of the time and place where the records may be inspected. If the records are not maintained by the University official to whom the request was submitted, that official shall advise the student of the correct official to whom the request should be addressed.
The right to request the amendment of the student’s education records that the student believes are inaccurate or misleading.
Students may ask the University to amend a record that they believe is inaccurate or misleading. They should write to the University official who was responsible for the record request, clearly identify the part of the record they want changed and specify why it is inaccurate or misleading. If the University decides not to amend the record as requested by the student, the University will notify the student of the decision and advise the student of the student’s right to an appeal.
The right to consent to disclosures of personally identifiable information contained in the student’s education records, except to the extent that FERPA authorizes disclosure without consent
. One exception which permits disclosure without consent is disclosure to school officials with legitimate educational interests. A school official is a person employed by the University in an administrative, supervisory, academic or research or support staff position (including law enforcement unit personnel and health staff); a person or company with whom the University has contracted (such as an attorney, auditor, or collection agent); a person serving on the Board of Trustees; or a student serving on an official committee, such as a disciplinary or grievance committee, or assisting another school official in performing his or her tasks. A school official has a legitimate educational interest if they need to review an education record to fulfill their professional responsibility. Upon request of a post-secondary institution, Tulane discloses education records without the student's consent to officials of another school in which a student seeks to enroll. Tulane will try to notify the student of the records request.
The right to file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education concerning alleged failures by Tulane to comply with the requirements of FERPA.
The name and address of the office that administers FERPA:
Family Policy Compliance Office
U.S. Department of Education
600 Independence Avenue
SW Washington, DC
Academic Excellence and Opportunity Statement:
The pursuit of academic excellence and opportunity fuels Tulane University’s continued progress. The hallmark of a great university is its ability to build a community of scholars and students from a wide variety of disciplines, backgrounds, and experiences who converge to ignite discovery, advance scholarship, and experience transformative personal growth. This is the foundation of Tulane University’s academic excellence and opportunity, as well as the source of our positive impact on society. At the very center of our mission is a culture personified by every Tulanian— a compassionate, close-knit place for students, faculty, staff, alumni, and friends. Our success depends upon our ability to grow and strengthen this community by attracting individuals from all backgrounds and experiences and providing each Tulanian with the opportunity to pursue their goals and aspirations and reach their fullest potential. In embracing these principles, we not only advance our mission as a leading research university but also contribute to a world where every individual can thrive.
Goldman Center for Accessibility
It is the policy and practice of Tulane University to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (Pub. L. No. 101-336), Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. No. 93-112, § 504, as amended), and state and local requirements regarding individuals with disabilities. Under these laws, no qualified individual with a disability shall be denied access to or participation in services, programs, and activities of Tulane University.
Tulane University School of Social Work is committed to providing accessible, reasonable accommodations and supportive teaching and learning environment. All students requesting accommodations are required to contact the Goldman Office of Accessibility.
The center is committed to providing equal access and a friendly environment for all who study and work at Tulane University. Through a collaborative relationship, reasonable modifications to the academic or work environment accommodations can be offered.
Title IX
Tulane University is committed to a policy of compliance with Federal laws and regulations administered by Title IX which states, ““No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance."
For more information regarding Title IX support and reporting policies within the university, Phone: (504) 865-5611
Case Management and Victim Support Services
Tulane’s Office of Case Management and Victim Support Services offers problem resolution services, case management services, victim support services, referral services, coordination and follow-up during and after hospitalization and/or medical leave of absence, and crisis management and resolution.
For after-hour support, the Division of Student Affairs has a crisis line with professionals on call for urgent situations and can be reached by calling or texting the Line (504) 264-6074
For 24/7 Student Resources and Support Services: (504) 902-9900
Emergency Reporting
Tulane requires prompt notification to the University of student emergencies on campus or abroad, which can be made by Tulane faculty, staff or students. Please report all student emergencies or issues to
http://tulane.edu/concerns
.
Other helpful numbers:
Student Concerns: 504 314-2160
TUPD: 988-5555 (downtown)
Field Education (MSW)
The purpose of the field education practicum is to provide an educationally directed practice experience for the MSW student. Historically, the partnership between social service agencies and social work education has been an essential one. The supervised practice experience provided by social service agencies for the education of social work students may also be known as, “field placement,” “field instruction,” “practicum” or “internship.”
Relationship to the Field Practicum to the Overall Curriculum
The field practicum is the link between the experiential aspect of learning and the overall curriculum. Each mode of learning, class and field, reinforces and enhances the other. Some content may receive greater emphasis in the field site or in the classroom, or content may emerge in one and be reinforced in the other. It is in the class/field partnership that integration of theory and practice occurs. The interdependence and complementary nature of the two modes of learning are enhanced through mutual understanding by faculty and field instructors of the theories, content, learning experiences, and assignments offered to students in both environments.
This goal of integration is accomplished in part through the Field Practicum & Seminar course, which provides students the opportunity to discuss, process, and integrate their agency-based field placement experience with classroom learning. Teaching methods and learning activities for the Field Practicum Seminar may include readings, skill building exercises, didactic presentations, case presentations, and role play exercises. Faculty Field Liaisons and Field instructors communicate regularly to ensure students’ educational goals are being met. Field instructors are encouraged to review syllabi, bibliographies, and assignments.
Prerequisites for Field Practicum
With the exception of those admitted as Advanced Standing, students must successfully complete one full-time or two part-time semesters prior to starting their field practicum placement. The field practicum experience is in addition to students’ non-field courses, allowing for both theoretical and practical learning.
Students must have resolved any “Incomplete” grades prior to starting field practicum, as outlined in the TSSW Student Handbook.
In addition, any student whose GPA falls below 3.0 MUST be evaluated by the Academic/Professional Accountability Review procedures to determine whether or not they will be allowed to enter or continue in field practicum.
Advanced Standing students begin field practicum placement their first semester full-time or part-time semester.
Foundation Field Practicum
The purpose of the Foundation Practice curriculum is to provide students with experience and instruction in foundation social work practice. It offers students an opportunity to learn the wide range of social work roles and functions (advocate, broker, resource developer, teacher, and counselor) and to become more aware of the needs of vulnerable populations. The foundation practice course, Field Practicum & Seminar I (SOWK 7520), is completed in one semester (during the full-time student’s second semester in the MSW program). Part-time students complete the foundation practice Field Practicum & Seminar courses PT1 and PT2 (SOWK 7910 & 7920) in two semesters.
Specialized Field Practicum
The second segment of the field instruction sequence is the Specialized Practice Field Practicum. Its purpose is to promote and focus on the integration of theory and practice skills in advanced clinical/community social work practice. The Specialized Practice curriculum builds upon the Foundation Practice curriculum. Full-time students take Field Practicum & Seminar II and III (SOWK 7530 and SOWK 7540) during their third and fourth semesters in the MSW program. Part-time students take the Specialized Practicums PT3, PT4, PT5, PT6 (SOWK 7930, 7940, 7950, 7960) during the student’s fifth through eighth semesters in the MSW program.
Field Education Roles and Responsibilities
DIRECTOR OF FIELD EDUCATION
The Director of Field Education is responsible for the leadership and management of the Field Education Department within the School’s budgetary guidelines.
P
ROGRAM MANAGERS/SENIOR FIELD EDUCATION COORDINATORS
The Program Manager(s)/Senior Field Education Coordinator(s) work collaboratively with all TSSW stakeholders. Program Managers/Senior Field Education Coordinators are responsible for coordinating services related to the implementation of CSWE and Field Education Department policies and procedures.
MSW FIELD EDUCATION PROGRAM COORDINATOR
MSW Field Education Program Coordinators are responsible for coordinating administrative duties related to the implementation of the Field Education Department.
PLACEMENT ADVISORS
Placement Advisers support the Program Managers/Senior Field Education Coordinators by working directly with online students seeking placement. Placement advisers are the first (but not only) point of contact for online students and provide guidance regarding their field application. The placement advisers present options to the program managers, who complete a vetting process with proposed sites, Field Instructors, and Task Managers to ensure they meet accreditation and TSSW standards.
ROLE OF MSW STUDENT
TSSW’s MSW program is an accelerated graduate program designed for adult learners. Students are expected to have the capacity, willingness, and motivation to be responsible learners and active participants in their own professional development.
Students must take active ownership of their education and professional development, including but not limited to:
Completing the minimum CSWE-prescribed 900 hours of field practicum placement concurrently with the associated Field Practicum & Seminar courses;
Engaging in mandatory one-hour weekly supervision with the approved Field Instructor;
Actively participate in planning their own learning, including developing specific, measurable, achievable, relevant, and time-oriented (SMART)  learning goals each semester (each semester for full-time and alternating semesters for part-time students) with their approved field instructor;
Following NASW ethical and professional standards by first addressing any concerns directly with their field supervisors then escalating to the field liaison should those concerns not be resolved;
Reviewing placement hours with their field instructors and submitting biweekly timesheets in TSSW’s online internship tracking program.
Behaving professionally as both a student and a representative of TSSW and their placement agency in the community. Scheduling a mandatory site visit every semester that includes the student, the field instructor, the field liaison and, if applicable, the task supervisor.
ROLE OF THE FIELD INSTRUCTOR
Potential field instructors come to the attention of the TSSW in various ways. Most often, a continuing relationship over the years between TSSW and agency yields the best results. The TSSW and the agency understand each other, are united in the educational endeavor and have worked productively over time. Often agency staff includes graduates of TSSW who identify with TSSW and its program and, with time and experience, are themselves interested in providing field instruction. Open communication between interested parties reveals names of staff members who are ready for and interested in becoming field instructors.
For those seeking placement outside the greater New Orleans area, agency administrators suggest staff members who they think should take on this assignment as a step in professional development. Often agency social workers themselves take the initiative and contact TSSW to express interest in becoming field instructors.
Readiness, qualification, interest, and supportive administration are the necessary backdrop for successful field instruction. TSSW will ensure minimum criteria for consideration as a Field Instructor are met for each individual practicum placement site.
TASK SUPERVISOR
In situations in which the agency cannot provide a qualified Master’s level social worker or Licensed Clinical Social Worker, a Task Supervisor may be utilized to reinforce the social work perspective and ensure adequate supervision. TSSW will ensure minimum criteria for consideration as a Task Supervisor are met for each individual practicum placement site.
EXTERNAL FIELD INSTRUCTOR (EFI)
When an agency does not have a qualified field instructor, as defined by CSWE and TSSW policies, an external supervisor may be brought onto the student’s team to provide the CSWE-prescribed weekly supervision. The external field instructor (EFI) must meet CSWE and TSSW field instructor qualifications and will work closely with the task supervisor and the field liaison to ensure the student’s practicum experience reflects CSWE competencies and social work values. TSSW will ensure minimum criteria for consideration as a External Field Instructor are met for each individual practicum placement site.
FACULTY FIELD LIAISON
The Faculty Field Liaison is a professor or adjunct instructor at Tulane University who teaches a Field Practicum & Seminar course. Faculty field liaisons assume responsibility for field advisement of small groups of students, meeting regularly with them in Field Seminar and conducting field practicum site visits at least once per semester. The emphasis is on a relationship-centered system that supports students’ reflection, critical thinking, and relationship skills. Agencies and their students are assigned to faculty liaisons by the Field Education Department.
Procedures for Practicum Placement
The process of assigning students to the field placement is a prescribed, rigorous, and detailed. The field practicum is the signature pedagogy of social work and the most important learning experience for students. As students engage in the delivery of social work services, classroom content takes on a professional reality. Much care, thought, and attention is focused on the assignment of students to field placements.
Students must be in good academic standing and demonstrate professional behavior for admission to field. This standard is articulated in the TSSW Code of Student Ethics Students are expected to have read and internalized the NASW Code of Ethics that guides social work professional practice. TSSW reserves the right to deny or delay a student’s field placement if these academic or professional standards are not met.
The Field Education Department assigns students to field placements following a substantial amount of preliminary work. This includes assessing how many interns an agency can support, and whether the agency will be able to support students’ individualized learning goals and desired field experiences. A final practicum assignment is made only after a student has interviewed with an assigned field placement, and there is mutual agreement that the assignment will be productive. The Field Education Department must provide the final approval for an internship to start.
All students must submit proof of individual student professional liability insurance to the TSSW online internship tracking system before entrance into field placement. They must also furnish proof of current and valid liability insurance upon request by TSSW officials or field instructors.
STUDENTS ARE NOT PERMITTED TO CONTACT PROSPECTIVE FIELD PLACEMENT AGENCIES UNTIL A TENTATIVE ASSIGNMENT HAS BEEN MADE OR THEY HAVE BEEN TOLD TO DO SO BY THE FIELD EDUCATION DEPARTMENT.
Practicum Policies
Required Hours of Internship
The Council on Social Work Education requires that students
complete a minimum of 900 hours of field experience during the MSW program
. Each full-time student must spend three semesters in the field practicum. In general, Full-Time students are at their placement agency, eight hours a day for three days per week or 24 hours per week for the semester. Part-Time students complete six semesters in field placement. On average, this is twelve hours per week for the semester.
Field hours earned which exceed the required minimum per semester do not rollover to the next semester. Students will still need to complete the hour requirements for their field practicum courses each semester - 300 hours for full-time and 150 hours for part-time students.
Students are concurrently completing field practicum hours while also attending classes. Full-time students attend classes on Tuesdays and Thursdays and are in the field on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. Part-time students have similar schedules. All students negotiate specific schedules with the agency field instructor, based on the needs of the agency/clients.
Students must remain in the placement agency for the duration of the semester. Accumulating additional hours early, in order to complete the internship sooner, is not permissible. For example, a full-time student who completes 350 hours of field one semester will still be required to complete 300 hours of field the following semester, even if it is their final semester. Hours are not the final determination of the student’s fulfillment of practicum requirements and the CSWE-mandated 900 hours are a minimum standard. Students must complete the full-time span allocated – this is part of the agreement between TSSW, students and partner agencies. They must have the time to engage in different types of practice interventions and to see these through to completion. They must be able to experience beginnings, middles and endings of assigned projects involving interventions in social work practice.
Students must complete a timesheet through the online field tracking software. The timesheet is reviewed by the field instructor during the one-hour weekly supervision. The timesheet is signed by both the student and the field instructor and submitted with the semester field evaluation at the end of each semester. Students must remain in field practicum placement throughout the semester, even if the required hours have been completed so that they have the opportunity to utilize what is learned in class in their field practicum setting. A student who is having difficulty completing the required hours by the end of the semester is expected to inform the field instructor and field liaison to discuss options as soon as possible. Successful completion of the course is dependent on completion of required hours each semester. If, for some reason, a student anticipates missing field hours in an upcoming semester due to personal issues, they are expected to discuss ways to make up days with the field instructor and field liaison prior to the start of the semester. In extenuating circumstances, with written permission by the field instructor and the Field Education Department, accommodations may be made to ensure completing the required hours. Accommodations and plans for completion of practicum placement hours must be clearly specified in the permission document.
Safety
Social work practice activities sometimes occur in places that may not be safe or may not perceived as safe by the student. Whether it is a perceived threat by a particular client or group and/or the physical or interpersonal environment of the situation, students are encouraged to discuss any concerns regarding personal safety issues with their field instructor. If, after gathering enough information to realistically assess the situation and learn how to provide appropriate protection, the student does not feel sufficiently safe to carry out assignments, they are encouraged to renegotiate those assignments with the help of the field instructor. Any safety concerns should also be brought to the attention of the Faculty Field Liaison as soon as possible.
Sexual Harassment Policy
Federal law provides that it shall be unlawful discriminatory practice for any employer, because of the gender of any person, to discharge without cause, to refuse to hire, or otherwise discriminate against any person with respect to any matter directly or indirectly related to employment or academic standing. Harassment of an employee or student on the basis of gender violates this federal law. In order to set a general standard for judging complaints of sexual harassment without infringing upon the freedom of speech if imposing individual standards of propriety upon the community, the Senate Committee on Academic Freedom and Responsibility of Students believes that it is necessary to approach the problem in terms of circumstances and consequences rather than a definition per se. Verbal or physical behavior constitutes sexual harassment under the terms of these complaint procedures only if it:
Would be regarded by most Tulane faculty members and students as grossly objectionable;
Is not stopped by what the student considers, and what, under the circumstances, are normal protests;
Occurs in a relationship in which the person is in a position to influence the student’s academic career objectives through grades, recommendations, or job referrals;
Creates an offensive or intimidating academic environment.
In the absence of any one of these four elements, the behavior would not constitute sexual harassment. Please see the most current Tulane University sexual harassment policy on the University’s website at
www.tulane.edu
.
Use of Personal Vehicles
Social work practice often requires travel to facilities outside the location of the agency. Some agencies provide reimbursement for student use of their own vehicles and insurance coverage for carrying out agency related activities. Some agencies have their own fleet of vehicles for which the student may qualify as a driver if they are to have assignments requiring use of a vehicle. Other agencies do not have these resources available. Issues related to the use of personal vehicles need to be clarified prior to placement.
University Holidays
All students are entitled to official University holidays and to vacation periods scheduled between semesters. At the beginning of placement, students should provide their field instructors with a TSSW University calendar that outlines official holidays. If the agency has particular holidays (religious, public holidays, etc.) beyond the prescribed University schedule, students will be expected to make up this time. Students are expected to anticipate planned holidays and to make plans for coverage of their practicum related tasks with the field instructor. If a student would like to continue practicum placement activities during a TSSW holiday period, approval must be sought and approved from the faculty field liaison and the Field Education Department. Students cannot be COMPELLED by the site to participate in field practicum placement during university holidays. Students must be aware that their student professional liability insurance may not provide coverage during holidays or university breaks.
Sick Leave, Personal Emergencies and Absences
CSWE Accreditation Standards mandate a minimum number of hours for completion of the MSW practicum. Most states require an MSW from a CSWE-accredited school in order to be licensed to engage in social work; therefore, students must complete a minimum of 900 hours of practicum in order to work as a social worker in most states. To assure students meet these requirements, sick leave or requested time off for personal emergencies must be made up during the semester in which the absences occurred. Students who miss field for several days should develop a plan to make up the hours with their field instructor and field liaison. Communication is crucial if/when any days must be missed.
It is important that every effort be made to treat all students equitably in regard to particular requests for an alteration in field time. Field instructors are requested not to make unilateral decisions about unusual requests for time off in the field even though it is understood that the student will have to make it up later. The field instructor should discuss such a request with the faculty field liaison who has a better overview of the total student group. In addition, any longer absence anticipated due to medical issues must be discussed with the faculty field liaison, field instructor, and Field Education Department.
Dual Relationships
The field instructor and student are expected to develop and maintain a friendly but professional relationship. Field instructors are prohibited from becoming romantically or sexually involved with field students. Ethical Standard 2.06 in the NASW Code of Ethics states:
“(a) Social workers who function as supervisors or educators should not engage in sexual activities or contact (including verbal, written, electronic, or physical contact) with supervisees, students, trainees, or other colleagues over whom they exercise professional authority.” (National Association of Social Workers, 2021).
To avoid a conflict of interest, field instructors should not enter into dual-role relationships with field students that are likely to detract from student development or lead to actual or perceived favoritism. Although there are pedagogical benefits to establishing good rapport with students and interacting with students both inside and outside the agency, there are also serious risks of exploitation, compromise of academic standards, and harm to student development.
NASW Code of Ethics Standard 3.01(c) states, “Social workers should not engage in any dual or multiple relationships with supervisees in which there is a risk of exploitation of or potential harm to the supervisee, including dual relationships that may arise while using social networking sites or other electronic media.” (National Association of Social Workers, 2021). It is the responsibility of the field instructor to prevent these risks from materializing into real or perceived conflicts of interest. The faculty field liaisons are available to consult with field instructors to help keep relationships focused on field education goals and requirements.
Related to these issues of dual relationships, TSSW will not assign students to placements involving:
Supervision by a family member or friend, whether primary field instructor, secondary field instructor, task supervisor, consultant, or practice consultant;
Supervision by another student in the MSW program, including task supervision;
Supervision by current supervisor at place of employment;
Placement in an agency where the student or a family member is an active or recent client; or
Other placements where existing relationships may impair meeting educational goals.
If a student has an existing relationship with a proposed field instructor or agency, the student and field instructor have the responsibility to disclose this when the placement is proposed. The Director of Field Education will assess the nature of the relationship for its potential impact on field education. (Adapted from College of St. Catherine School of Social Work Policy on Dual Relationships in Field and LSU School of Social Work)
Home Visits
Home visits are a regular part of many placements. Agencies will be expected to take appropriate measures to ensure the safety of students. Students are not permitted to make home visits by themselves during their first semester (full-time) and first two semesters (part-time). Dyads or pairs represent best practice and optimize safety for the student. The same safeguards provided to staff must be provided to students. However, in some cases students may need additional support and security provisions. The Field Liaison and Field Education Department should be consulted immediately if safety is a concern.
Transporting Clients
Students are NEVER permitted to transport clients under any circumstances
, whether in their personal vehicles or an agency vehicle, even if accompanied by an agency employee. This is a liability issue for all parties involved. As it is not covered by car or students’ liability insurance plans, this could leave a student with a large and unforeseen financial burden, and anything could happen during the transport.
DO NOT TRANSPORT CLIENTS.
Information Sharing
As with all social work courses, the faculty of TSSW has a responsibility to monitor the student’s performance and progress in the program. To this end, faculty share information amongst themselves with respect to the student’s status in the program.
Field instructors are co-educators in the Field Practicum & Seminar courses whose input is essential to the information sharing process. Access to information is restricted to the students for whom the field instructor is or will be responsible. This information may include, but is not restricted to the following:
Strengths, knowledge and skills
Suitability and readiness for field work
Grades
Attendance and/or participation in other social work courses
Identified learning needs and/or areas requiring particular attention during field education courses
Verification of required background and medical clearances required for internship
Students are notified that information may be shared with field instructors and field sites as part of the field education process and are required to sign a Student Release of Information Form prior to beginning academic courses.
Professional Ethics
It is understood that students will adhere to the expected standards for professional and ethical conduct in addition to the policies and procedures of the agency as long as those policies and/or procedures are not in conflict with the National Association of Social Workers Code of Ethics. An especially salient issue for students during the field practicum is that of confidentiality of case records, process recordings, and other related materials. As an important component of supervision with their field instructors, students are expected to review their work (audio/video tapes, written materials etc.) and agency records pertinent to their duties. Additionally, students may be asked to share their work with their field liaison. Under no circumstances will students be allowed to remove documentation related to clients from the agency.
A student’s failure to adhere to the expected standards for professional and ethical conduct will be considered grounds for termination of the practicum, a failing grade in the placement, and immediate cause for an Academic Standards and Professional Review to determine the student’s continuation in the MSW program.
Open Identification of Student Status
Students must identify themselves as students or interns in their work with clients and other agency representatives. It is unethical for students to misrepresent themselves as employees of the agency.
Personal Conduct
Social workers and social work interns serve the most vulnerable populations and are often looked to as role models by the community. Personal conduct can impact how a student is perceived by clients, referral sources, and colleagues and may interfere with their ability to do their work. Students are expected to use the following standards from the NASW Code of Ethics as a guide when making decisions about personal conduct:
Private Conduct
4.03 “Social workers should not permit their private conduct to interfere with their ability to fulfill their professional responsibilities.” (National Association of Social Workers, 2021).
Students will want to keep this in mind when engaging in social media and consider making any social media accounts private.
Respect
2.01 “Social workers should avoid unwarranted negative criticism of colleagues in communications with clients or with other professionals. Unwarranted negative criticism may include demeaning comments that refer to colleagues’ level of competence or to individuals’ attributes such as race, ethnicity, national origin, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, age, marital status, political belief, religion, immigration status, and mental or physical disability.” (National Association of Social Workers, 2021).
Professional Liability and Health Insurance
All students are required to submit proof of their own professional liability insurance prior to entering field practicum placement.
Students cannot be in field practicum placement if proof of liability insurance is not on file in the online placement tracking software system.
Students may be responsible for the provision of their own health insurance. Students who are in field placements are advised to be certain their health coverage will provide for any injuries, accidents, or illnesses that may be incurred at the placement site.
Social Media Guidelines
As social workers, we must be aware that our private world has a greater likelihood of becoming public when using social media. Field instructors, colleagues, and even clients may have access to information via the Internet that students would otherwise limit to friends and families. Section 4.03 of the Code of Ethics states that “social workers should not permit their private conduct to interfere with their ability to fulfill their professional responsibilities.” (National Association of Social Workers, 2021). It is inappropriate for students to refer to any fieldwork site/agency, client, or client situation, etc. on their personal social media pages (including but not limited to Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat, X, blog posts, etc.) no matter how many security settings have been used.
Students should be clear when sharing personal views and should engage in a clear decision-making process before sharing views related to sensitive issues. Students should verify information before posting it, correct mistakes in a timely manner, and be aware of legal liability issues such as copyright infringement, defamation, and posting proprietary information. Section 4.06(a) of the Code of Ethics states: “Social workers should make clear distinctions between statements made and actions engaged in as a private individual and as a representative of the social work profession, a professional social work organization, or the social worker’s employing agency.” (National Association of Social Workers, 2021).
Social media channels provide an excellent means to build community; however, as students utilize these tools, they should take care to do no harm to themselves, their field sites, their clients, TSSW, their classmates or to the social work profession in the process.
Dress Guidelines
Students must follow the dress code that is required of agency staff. Agency policies including, but not limited to dress, tattoos, and/or piercings must be adhered to by students. This is another factor to consider when choosing placements. Observe how people in the agency are dressed during your interview and ask questions about the agency expectations on dress and presentation
.
PROCEDURES FOR ADDRESSING ISSUES IN FIELD PRACTICUM PLACEMENT
A problem that surfaces in the field placement practicum setting may be identified initially by either the student or the field instructor. Regardless of who identifies the problem, the first step is a meeting between the student and field instructor to discuss the situation. It is anticipated that the majority of problems related to the field practicum can be resolved at this level. However, if the situation is not resolved between the field instructor and the student, either the field instructor or the student should promptly bring the problem to the attention of the field liaison.
Once a problem has been brought to the attention of the field liaison, the field liaison will meet with both the student and the field instructor to mediate and address the problem. When the field liaison holds the meeting with the student and field instructor, the field liaison will document the meeting, including the identified problems and the proposed methods to remedy the problems. This document (which can be an email) will be sent to the Director of Field Education and the Program Managers / Senior Field Education Coordinators for review and then shared with the student and field instructor.
Notwithstanding the process outlined above, both the agency and TSSW have the unfettered discretion to immediately remove a student from the agency setting if either the agency or TSSW believes such removal is warranted.
IDENTIFYING THE STUDENT WHO IS EXPERIENCING PROBLEMS IN THE FIELD PRACTICUM
Students have different learning styles and subsequently progress at different rates in development and skill attainment. Despite varied learning patterns, it is expected by the time any student has completed the Foundation and Specialized field semesters, they will be capable of providing MSW level practice intervention, as indicated by satisfactory ratings on the Core Competency standards on the Field Performance Evaluation.
When there is concern about a student’s progress (for whatever reason), the field instructor must hold a face-to-face meeting with the student to attempt to resolve the concern. If this does not rectify the problem, the process above should be followed.
Some areas of performance which may cause concern include, but are not limited to the following:
Failure of a student to meet the expected level of performance at any given stage in the curriculum;
Excessive absences or tardiness;
Failure to keep records current;
Failure to prepare appropriately for supervision;
Apathy or failure to engage and invest in the field placement learning opportunities;
Inappropriate or questionable professional behavior.
POSSIBLE OUTCOMES
A student’s failure to meet the minimum number of satisfactory ratings on Core Competency standards on the Field Performance Evaluation could result in:
The grade of Unsatisfactory “U” can be given in the following situations:
If the problem is sufficiently serious or:
If the student does not meet expectations on more than 20 percent of the Competency standards on the Performance Evaluation. This grade may require that the student be reviewed and evaluated by the Academic and Professional Standards Review Committee. But, at a minimum, the student will have to repeat the course for which the “U” was earned.
The grade of Incomplete “I” is used in the following situations:
If due to illness or extraordinary circumstances, the student lacks the required time to meet expectations according to the Performance Evaluation and must make up the time and work;
An Incomplete must be converted into an “S” or a “U” during the semester following the one in which it was given.
The proposed plan to make up hours must be approved by both the Director of Field Education and the Director of the MSW Program and cannot be issued in a student’s final semester.
REMOVAL OF A STUDENT FROM FIELD: REASONS FOR REMOVAL
A student may be removed from the field placement if either the agency or the Field Department believes such removal is warranted. Situations where removal will be considered warranted include but are not limited to the following:
Level of student performance in the placement is below standards. Using the Competency standards on the Field Performance Evaluation for the appropriate level of field practicum (Foundation or Specialized), the field instructor determines that the student is far below standards and has little or no chance of achieving a level of ‘Satisfactory’ for the semester. The field instructor and field liaison attempted to remedy sub-standard performance areas, but those efforts were unsuccessful in bringing the student up to the ‘Satisfactory’ level for that given semester and its Competency standards. For either semester, evidence to the contrary of the above expectations, given appropriate efforts by the field instructor and field liaison to remedy deficiencies, will constitute grounds for an Academic and Professional Standards Review to determine the student’s continuation in the MSW program.
A student’s failure to meet the expected standards for ethical practice as outlined in the NASW Code of Ethics, Louisiana Professional and Occupational Standards, assigned agency policies or procedures or TSSW policies and procedures;
An agency’s failure to provide learning experiences and/or appropriate supervision to allow the student the opportunity to meet the Competency standards as defined on the Field Performance Evaluation;
Unexpected events in the life of the student or in the agency which prevent the attainment of the Competency standards as defined on the Field Performance Evaluation;
The student has demonstrated an inability to work positively and instructively with other students, faculty, staff, clients, and other professionals.
The student has attempted to harm him or herself or someone else;
Inappropriate behavior which is inconsistent with the principles and practices of the social work profession and is not limited to the classroom or the field placement; or
Repeated tardiness or absences from the field site without notification or approval.
PROCEDURES FOR ADDRESSING ISSUES IN FIELD
The student, field liaison and field instructor work together as a team to address issues as they arise. It is incumbent upon the student and the field instructor to identify, discuss and attempt to mediate problems as they occur. If they are unable to reach a solution, they are to contact the field liaison as soon as possible for further assistance.
Upon notification that there are problems with the field placement that need further assistance, the field liaison will:
Apprise the Field Education Department of the situation;
Meet with the student and field instructor to determine the specific problems and attempt to remediate the situation with a plan for corrective action, specifically articulating the behavioral indicators that would show that the problems are being resolved.
Document the findings of the meeting and share that documentation with the Director of Field Education, the student, and the field instructor.
If a solution cannot be worked out that will allow the student to remain in the field setting, then the field liaison will convey this in writing to the Director, who can attempt further remediation efforts or terminate the placement. The Director of Field Education will then
Initiate appropriate “next-steps” with the student and the Field Office to facilitate placement in another setting or Request an Academic and Professional Standards Review to determine the student’s standing in the MSW program.
To protect students, agencies and TSSW from prematurely changing field placements, every effort will be made to ensure a student will not be removed from the field placement without going through the above-mentioned process.
If necessary, the student may be placed on leave from the field placement by the field liaison and Director of Field Education during this process.
Field instructors are notified of the process for addressing concerns during orientation and receive a copy of the Field Manual outlining procedures.
If the field instructor and agency believe that immediate dismissal of the student without prior notification is warranted, the field liaison and Director of Field Education will obtain information from the field instructor and student to determine appropriate next steps.
DISMISSAL FROM A FIELD PLACEMENT MAY RESULT IN AN ACADEMIC AND PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS REVIEW AND COULD RESULT IN IMMEDIATE DISMISSAL FROM THE PROGRAM.
A student who terminates a field practicum without the knowledge and permission of the field liaison and Director of Field Education may receive a failing grade for the semester, lose credit for the hours worked, and be subject to an Academic and Professional Standards Review to determine the student’s standing in the MSW program. The Director of Field Education, in collaboration with the field liaison and field instructor, will determine if any credit will be given for field hours completed if the student transitions to another field placement.
Certificate
Disaster Resilience Leadership Studies Certificate
Graduate
General Graduate School Requirements
Master of Social Work
Master of Science in Disaster Resilience Leadership
Doctor of Social Work
Certificate
Disaster Resilience Leadership Studies Certificate
Training the Disaster Resilience Leaders of tomorrow! The Disaster Resilience Leadership Academy (DRLA) is dedicated to the systematic strengthening of global humanitarian leadership. The DRLA creates a process that integrates education, research, and application to achieve increased holistic resilience in communities, households and individuals impacted by environmental challenges and disasters.
To earn the
Disaster Resilience Leadership
Certificate, 15 credit hours must be earned consisting of the 5 core DRLS courses:
1. Human and Social Factors
2. Leadership Analytics/Economics of Disaster
3. Disaster Operations and Policy
4. Environment and Infrastructure
5. Leadership
Graduate
General Graduate School Requirements
A full description of
Master's
requirements for all students can be found in the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies section of this catalog. Students should review these policies thoroughly.
Master of Social Work
The full-time and part-time MSW program requires a total of 60 credit hours. Our Advanced Standing curriculum requires 48 credit hours. Each student completes 12 credit hours of field practicum, which equates to three full-time semesters of 24 hours per week in field or six part-time semesters of 12 hours per week in field.
Master of Science in Disaster Resilience Leadership
To earn this degree from the School of Social Work, 36 credits must be earned. The 36 credits will consists of 21 credits earned from the DRLA Core Competency courses, 6 credits from DRLA electives, and 9 credits from other electives. The Tulane School of Social Work also offers a dual-degree whereas a student earns both the MSW and the MS concurrently - this option usually adds one semester or course work.
Doctor of Social Work
During their first two years, students will take courses in social work theory, practice and methods. Each semester includes two courses and an independent study during which the student will work with an academic advisor to develop their scholarly portfolio and Advanced Practice Project.
Students are encouraged to develop a possible topic for their advanced practice project early in their doctoral study. Once a topic has been selected, a three-member committee will review a formal proposal and provide feedback to the student.
Final approval of the proposal as fulfillment of a requirement for candidacy for the degree is granted only upon fulfillment of all other requirements for candidacy, including 56 hours of required courses and successful defense of the proposed project.
Graduate
Disaster Resilience Leadership Studies Certificate (Graduate)
Disaster Resilience Leadership Studies, MS
Integrated Clinical in Community Practice in Social Work, MSW
Social Work, DSW
Undergraduate
Social Work Minor