CORE REQUIREMENTS: School of Public Health
URL: https://catalog.tulane.edu/public-health-tropical-medicine/

=== COURSE CODES MENTIONED ===
COLQ 1010, COLQ 1020, ENGL 1010, ENGL 1011, SPHL 6020, SPHL 9970, SPHL 9980, SPHL 9990

=== FULL TEXT ===
Dean:
Thomas A. LaVeist, PhD
Weatherhead Presidential Chair in Health Equity
Mission and Values
Our Mission
As stewards of the first school of public health in the United States, the Tulane University Celia Scott Weatherhead School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine cultivates independent thinkers, innovative leaders, fierce advocates, and accomplished scholars.
From the neighborhoods of New Orleans to communities worldwide, we conduct research and collaborate with our partners to ensure that all of humanity has an equitable opportunity to be healthy and pursue optimal well-being.
We train the problem solvers.
Our Values
Legacy:
We were the first; we lead
Diversity:
Leverage our collective genius
Collaboration:
Cultivate a culture of shared success
Excellence:
Whatever we do, do it well
Discovery:
Solve problems that matter
Engagement:
Be of value to New Orleans and the world
Balance:
Have fun!
Our Vision
Optimal health and well-being for all.
About Us
As of September 18, 2024, we are the Tulane University Celia Scott Weatherhead School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine! Our name recognizes the landmark total lifetime giving of Celia Scott Weatherhead, a 1965 graduate of Tulane’s Newcomb College and a stalwart supporter of issues of public health and health equity.
Our school was initially founded in 1912 when it became the very first school of public health in the United States. Tulane’s commitment to public health goes back even further, however, to 1834 when the university was founded to address concerns of cholera, yellow fever, smallpox, and malaria.
The Celia Scott Weatherhead School of Public Health continues to educate passionate students who want to make a difference in the health and well-being of populations around the globe. Located in New Orleans, Louisiana, at the curve of the Mississippi River, the Weatherhead School is at the epicenter of some of the most pressing issues facing public health today, like the intersection of climate change and health, the intractability of health inequities, and the re-emergence of tropical infectious diseases. These factors and more make us
the
public health school of the South
.
Our public health students are grounded in the foundational competencies and topics of the field, such as epidemiology, biostatistics, and the social determinants of health, but they can also choose areas of specialization that set them apart in fields such as maternal and child health, disaster management, violence prevention, and more.
The only public health school with a Department of Tropical Medicine and Infectious Disease, we have studied vector-borne diseases extensively, with ongoing research in malaria, dengue, and Chagas. We also have a strong focus on cardiovascular disease, health equity and disparities, reproductive health, nutrition, and disaster response and displacement, along with growing strengths in genomics, epigenetics, and other aspects of personalized health. Research hubs in both emerging and traditional topics like climate change and health, data science and artificial intelligence, and cancer prevention and control offer interdisciplinary opportunities to faculty and students alike.
As a top-tier research institution, students learn from faculty who are leaders actively engaged in key issues and in pursuit of greater knowledge and solutions that will improve the lives of populations, communities, and people. Our accomplished faculty are committed public health professionals regularly recognized among their peers with awards, prestigious memberships, and important roles and responsibilities on editorial boards and within associations. They take their job preparing the next generation of public health professionals very seriously.
Our students gain a rigorous skills-based education here, and we are fortunate to count ministers and commissioners of health, deans of schools of public health, and presidents and CEOs of health organizations among our alumni. Whether they pursued their degree on our downtown New Orleans campus or through one of our growing list of high-caliber online programs, all of our graduates go on to do important, life-changing work. As an equity-minded institution, our aim is to graduate a cadre of public health professionals who reflect the communities most in need of public health support.
Join more than a century’s worth of Tulane graduates who have arrived with passion and left with purpose as leaders in public health.
Our Leadership
Dean
Thomas A. LaVeist, PhD
Weatherhead Presidential Chair in Health Equity
Senior Associate Dean for Academic Affairs
Christine M. Arcari, PhD, MPH
Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs and Development
Patricia Kissinger, PhD, MPH
Associate Dean for Research
Kelli Stidham Hall, PhD, MS
Associate Dean for Academic Programs
Gretchen Clum, PhD
Associate Dean for Institutional Excellence and Opportunity.
Eva Silvestre, PhD
Associate Dean for Public Health Practice
W. Susan Cheng, PhD, MPH
Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education
Joseph Keating, PHD
Associate Dean for Global Health
Richard Oberhelman, MD
Director of Doctoral Programs
Katherine Andrinopoulos, PhD
Associate Provost for Health Sciences and Associate Dean for Graduate Medical Education
M. A. Krousel-Wood, MD, MPSPH
Assistant Dean for Finance and Administration
Susan Barrera, MBA
Assistant Dean for Student Experience
Erica Whitiker-Valenzuela, EdD
Assistant Dean for Enrollment Management
Suzanna Chase, MS
Chief of Staff
Tom Augustson
Dean's Office
Celia Scott Weatherhead School of
Public Health and Tropical Medicine
Tulane University
Tidewater Building
1440 Canal Street, Suite 2400
New Orleans, Louisiana 70112
www.sph.tulane.edu/
Phone: (504) 988-5397
Uptown Office
Caroline Richardson Building
Phone: (504) 865-5140
Academic Policies
Public Health Undergraduate Student Policies
Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Policies
School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine Policies
Academic Advising
Class Attendance
Course Add/Drop
Readmitting Students to Degree Programs
Medical Withdrawal, Leave, and Return
Incomplete Grades
Transfer Credits
Course Waivers
Cross Registration
Change in Degree Requirements
Academic Standards
​
MPH, MSPH, MPH&TM, and MHA Degree Programs
MS, PhD and DrPH Degree Programs
​
Student Appeal of Dismissal
Grading Scale - Graduate Courses
Time for Completion of Degrees
Celia Scott Weatherhead School of
Public Health and Tropical Medicine Undergraduate Student Policies
A full description of academic policies for all students in
Newcomb-Tulane College
can be found in the college's section of this catalog. Students should review these policies thoroughly.
Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Policies
A full description of academic policies for all students in
Graduate Programs
can be found in the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies section of this catalog. Students should review these policies thoroughly.
Celia Scott Weatherhead School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine Graduate Student Policies
Academic Advising
At matriculation, each student is assigned a faculty advisor who provides information on the degree and program requirements, advises students on course selection, assists students with practice and integrative learning experiences and/or research experiences, mentors students on academic and professional issues, and assess students' progress toward their degrees. Students and faculty advisors are expected to meet at least once each semester. Students may change faculty advisors with the agreement of another faculty to serve as their advisor. Students must inform the departmental administrator of the change in faculty advisor in writing.
Upon paying the admission deposit and confirming intent to enroll, master's and DrPH students are assigned a student success advisor who collaborates with the student’s faculty advisor and department.  The student success advisor provides information on degree requirements, assists students with addressing academic and transition related issues, monitors fulfillment of degree requirements, aids students in interpreting university policies and procedures, coordinates the completion of relevant university forms and requests, and acts as a liaison to various university departments.  Students are expected to meet with their student success advisor at least once each semester.
Class Attendance
Graduate Courses - Residential
Class attendance is a critical component of learning and students are expected to attend and participate fully in all scheduled class meetings and activities. Attendance policy is established by the instructor for a given course and is stated in the syllabus. It is up to the instructor to determine whether the student can make up missed quizzes, examinations or other exercises, and grades may be adjusted accordingly.  Students are responsible for notifying instructors and the Office of Student Experience about significant absences that result from serious illnesses, injuries, or critical personal problems. Course instructors must clearly state expectations for class participation in the syllabus.  Students experiencing barriers to meeting attendance requirements due to disabilities are encouraged to register with the Goldman Center for Student Accessibility to discuss accommodations and to make the necessary arrangements with their Instructor.
Graduate Courses - Online
Success in online courses is dependent on active participation and engagement throughout the course. Students are required to complete all assignments by the due date.  Live sessions in online learning create an interactive and effective learning environment.  There may be some
live, synchronous sessions that students are expected to attend during which class assignments are competed for a grade. The dates for these sessions will be stated in the course syllabus.  It is the responsibility of the student to notify the instructor in advance if unable to attend to discuss alternative assignment options. For all other live sessions, attendance will not be graded, however you are responsible for all the content covered.  All live sessions are recorded.
Course Add/Drop
Students can Add/Drop courses according to the dates set each semester by the Registrar’s Office.  Please refer to the academic calendar for Add/Drop dates. Tuition refund is determined by drop date and refunds are automatically computed in Gibson. During the Add/Drop period the student can add and drop courses through Gibson without any signatures or other approval.  Courses dropped during Add/Drop will not appear on the student transcript.  Students dropping all courses in a semester must complete a resignation form. Students completing the resignation form are only resigned from the current semester and are still considered enrolled in their degree program.  Students adding and/or dropping courses must be aware of potential financial aid and visa implications and should check with the Office of Financial Aid or the Office of International Students and Scholars. After the Add period, no courses can be added and after the Drop period, no courses can be dropped without record, please refer to the withdrawal policy.
Readmitting Students to Degree Programs
Students that have not registered for courses for more than 12 consecutive months must seek readmission.  Students seeking readmission must contact the WSPH Advising and Student Success Office at
sphtmadvising@tulane.edu
.  The readmission packet will be reviewed and approved by the Department Chair and Program Director.  If readmitted, the student must satisfy the current degree requirements as shown in the current course catalog and not the degree requirements under which they originally enrolled.  Students who are readmitted can apply applicable earned credit hours to their degree, provided that those credit hours have not expired. This policy does not apply to students on medical leave or leave of absence.
​
Medical Withdrawal, Leave, and Return
Students may experience medical and/or psychological conditions as well as problems around substance misuse that significantly impact their ability to complete their academic pursuits.  During such circumstances, a medical leave of absence from the University provides the student an opportunity to remain a matriculated student while also allowing time away for appropriate treatment and recovery.
Any student who wishes to request a complete medical withdrawal from classes or leave of absence from the University should review the information
here
.
The decision to readmit a student following medical leave is a provisional judgment that may be reversed within the first semester if the recommendations for readmission are not met.  If permission to return is granted, special conditions or requirements may be outlined at that time.
Incomplete (I) Grades
Students must work with instructors on a plan and timeframe to complete remaining work. A grade of "I" automatically becomes an ”F” one year after the final examination date. An extension may be obtained with the permission of the instructor by requesting an extension with the Office of Academic Affairs.
Transfer Credits
Please note this policy exclusively pertains to transfer credits from courses that were not completed at Tulane University.  Students that completed previous graduate coursework at Tulane University must contact their faculty advisor and the Office of Academic Affairs to determine shared credit hours.
Courses for transfer credit are reviewed on a course-by-course basis and WSPH reserves the right not to accept the transfer of credit toward a WSPH degree.  Only academic credits from didactic courses can be considered for transfer credit.
Maximum number of credits potentially accepted for transfer is determined by degree:
MPH, MSPH, MPHTM, and MS degrees – 12 credit hours
DrPH degree - 15 credit hours (Foundational Coursework - Prerequisites only)
MHA and PhD degrees – 18 credit hours
For a course to be eligible for transfer to WSPH, a course must be:
taken at a regionally US Department of Education accredited 4-year college or university.  Courses taken at universities outside of the United States must be evaluated by a transcript evaluation service (such as the World Education Service, “WES”).  For universities with formal partnerships with Tulane, credit transfers will be guided by policies outlined in the Memorandum of Understanding.
a grade of B or higher
a graduate level courses taken after completion of an undergraduate degree
completed within the last 7 years at time of enrollment
Transfer Credits and GPA
Grades of courses accepted for transfer credits are not included in the GPA calculation.
Transfer Credits from Quarter-based Systems
Credits completed at an institution that uses a quarter credit system rather than a semester credit system will be accepted at 2/3 the number of hours on the transcript. For instance, a three-credit hour course from an institution that uses quarter credits will transfer to Tulane University as two hours of credit.
Transfer Credits – At the time of matriculation
In order to process transfer credit for coursework completed prior to matriculation, the student must complete a Transfer Credit Approval Form and provide the course syllabus and an official transcript.  Transfer requests for courses required by the degree program must be reviewed and approved by the Course Director.  Transfer requests for elective courses will be considered on a case-by-case basis.  A similar course must be taught at Tulane University and the syllabus reviewed and approved by the Program Director and Course Director.  New students should submit the request for transfer credits the semester before starting the program and no later than 2 semesters into the program.
Graduate Credit Earned before the Bachelor's Degree is Conferred
Generally, no credit is given for graduate courses taken before a student has completed a bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution. The exception to this policy are students in an accelerated bachelor’s to master’s degree program.
Transfer Credits – After matriculation
Current students may need to take and transfer courses outside of Tulane University as part of their degree program if the course is not offered by Tulane University. These requests will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis and must be pre-approved by the Faculty Advisor and Graduate Program Director.  Transfer of credit is not automatic and not all courses may be accepted toward their program.  Once matriculated, students cannot enroll in a course at a different university and apply for transfer credits when an equivalent course is offered at Tulane University.
Transfer Credit Expiration
No credit earned at another college or university more than seven (7) years previously at the time of matriculation may be applied to a WSPH
degree.
Course Waivers
Course Waiver: For SPHL 6020 Foundations in Public Health
Tulane School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine must ensure that all degree seeking students are grounded in foundational public health knowledge. These foundational learning objectives are taught in SPHL 6020 Foundations in Public Health. All WSPH students (all degree programs) that meet the criteria for option 1 or 2 below are eligible to apply for a course waiver.
OPTION #1 – PREVIOUS PUBLIC HEALTH DEGREE:
Students with a previous Bachelor’s, Master’s or Doctoral degree from a CEPH-accredited public health program or school can request a waiver from SPHL 6020 Foundations in Public Health. A list of CEPH-accredited schools and programs can be found here:
https://ceph.org/about/org-info/who-we-accredit/accredited/
. Students with a bachelor's degree who receive the waiver are required to take an additional elective to fulfill the 3 credit hours.  Students with a master's or doctoral degree who receive the waiver may be able to transfer credit to fulfill the 3 credit hours.
OPTION #2 – CHALLENGE EXAM:
The challenge exam assesses student mastery of foundational public health knowledge. Students that successfully pass the exam receive a course waiver from SPHL 6020 Foundations in Public health. All students are eligible to sit for the SPHL 6020 Foundations in Public Health Challenge Exam.  Students must score at least 70% to pass the Challenge Exam.  Students who receive the waiver are required to take an additional elective to fulfill the 3 credit hours. Students who score below 70% must register for SPHL 6020 Foundations in Public Health.
The Challenge Exam can only be taken one time. If a student has taken SPHL 6020 Foundations in Public Health and failed, they are not eligible to take the Challenge Exam and must repeat the course.
Course Waiver: All Courses (except SPHL 6020 Foundations in Public Health)
Course waivers will be considered on a case-by-case basis.  To request a waiver of a course students must consult with their Faculty Advisor and complete a Course Waiver Request Form.  Depending on the course, students may be required to take a challenge exam.  A course waiver must be approved by the Course Director, Program Director, and Department Chair. If the request for course waiver is approved, students must still fulfill the required number of credit hours.  The credit hours of a waived course do not count toward total credit hours for the degree.
Cross Modality Registration
Cross-modality registration allows residential graduate students to enroll in online courses and online graduate students to enroll in residential (on-campus) courses.  All students upon matriculation are designated as a residential or online student, based on degree program. This policy applies to Fall, Spring, and Summer semesters.
Some courses may not allow cross-modality registration. Some courses may have other restrictions (i.e., course prerequisites, degree program restrictions). Students who do not meet the registration criteria for a course will be unable to register.
For courses that allow cross-modality registration:  graduate students will be allowed to self-register for courses between the online and residential teaching modalities with the following guidance:
1.
Students that receive federal financial aid (federal loans
) must meet with their financial aid counselor to ensure that cross-modality registration complies with the following:
Enrollment status requirements for financial aid eligibility.
Satisfactory academic progress (SAP) standards.
Other financial aid terms and conditions as applicable.
It is the responsibility of the student to meet with their financial aid counselor to determine that their financial aid will not be adversely affected by cross-modality registration.
2.
International students on a F-1/J-1 visa
have limitations on the number of credit hours for cross-modality registration.  To be eligible to register for online courses:
International students on a F-1/J-1 visa must register for a minimum of 6 credit hours of residential courses (sections -01 to -49) or be registered in SPHL 9980 or SPHL 9970 or SPHL 9990.
Students meeting these minimum registration requirements can register for additional courses that are offered online (sections -50 to -99).
It is the responsibility of the student to determine if their visa status may be adversely affected by cross-modality registration.  International Students on a F-1/J-1 student status, can reach out to the OISS at
oiss@tulane.edu
with questions related to their immigration status.
Cha
nge in Degree Requirements for Academic Programs
If degree program requirements change while a student is enrolled, the student completes the degree under the requirements in which they matriculated.  Students enrolled in a degree program that has been revised will be notified.  A student may voluntarily opt to complete the degree under the new requirements; however, all new program requirements must be fulfilled.  Students should consult with their faculty advisor when considering their options and will be provided guidance on how to opt into the revised plan of study. If students choose the revised plan of study, they will receive a letter of the updated requirements to complete the degree.
Academic Standards
MPH, MSPH, MPH&TM, and MHA Degree Programs
Academic Requirements
GPA - Cumulative grade point average (GPA) of at least a 3.0 on a 4.0-point scale. GPAs below 3.0 cannot be rounded up.
Course Grade Minimum - Grades below C will not count towards the total credit hours required to complete the degree. A course can be repeated only one time. The original grade remains on the transcript but is not included in calculating the overall GPA.
Transfer Between Programs/Concentrations
Students in the MPH, MSPH, MPH&TM or MHA programs may transfer to other WSPH master's programs/concentrations and apply credits earned.  The student must fulfill all of the degree requirements for the program they transfer into, even if it requires more total credits for the degree.  Department and Graduate Program Director approval is necessary to transfer.
Academic Probation
A student with a GPA <3.0 or a grade below C in any course will be placed on academic probation. A student placed on probation has 12 months to return to good academic standing.  Probation status may lead to withdrawal of financial support.
A student placed on probation must work with their faculty and student success advisor to propose in writing a plan and timeline to return to good academic standing.  This plan must be approved by the Senior Associate Dean of Academic Affairs.  A copy of the plan must be sent to WSPH student records no later than two weeks after delivery of the probation letter.
Dismissal
A student will be dismissed from a master's program if any one of the following occurs:
Not meeting the terms of probation.
GPA, based on the number of credit hours remaining, cannot be brought above 3.0.
Receiving a grade lower than C in a required course that has been repeated.
Failure to meet departmental milestones, such as finishing coursework and passing applied practice experiences, residencies, integrative learning experiences, and/or thesis within the time frames established by the school.
MS, PhD, and DrPH Degree Programs
Academic requirements
GPA - Cumulative grade point average (GPA) of at least a 3.0 on a 4.0-point scale. GPAs below 3.0 cannot be rounded up.
Course Grade Minimum - Grades below B- will not count towards the total credit hours required to complete the degree. Only two grades of B- will count toward the degree.  Courses can be repeated one time only. The original grade remains on the transcript but is not included in calculating the overall GPA.
PhD Program Continuous Registration
A doctoral student must be continuously registered in a degree-granting division of the university during the academic year (fall, spring, and summer) in either full-time or part-time status from the date of the first registration until the awarding of the degree. Failure to be continuously registered is
de facto
withdrawal and the school reserves the right not to readmit. Students who are readmitted may be subject to any changes in degree criteria in place at the time of readmission.
Transfer Between Programs/Concentrations
MS students may transfer to other WSPH master's programs/concentrations and apply credits earned but must fulfill all of the degree requirements for the program they transfer into, even if it requires more total credits for the degree. Department and Graduate Program Director approval is necessary to transfer.
PhD students may transfer to a master's program or other PhD concentration but must fulfill all of the degree requirements for the program they transfer into, even if it requires more total credits for the degree.  Department and Graduate Program Director approval is necessary to transfer.
DrPH students may transfer to a master's program but must fulfill all of the degree requirements for the program they transfer into, even if it requires more total credits for the degree. DrPH students need to reapply to transfer to a PhD program.  Department and Graduate Program Director approval is necessary to transfer.
Academic Probation
A student with a GPA <3.0 or three B-grades, or one grade of C or lower in any course will be placed on academic probation. A student placed on probation has 12 months to return to academic good standing.  Probation status may lead to withdrawal of financial support.
A student placed on probation must work with their faculty advisors to propose in writing a plan and timeline to return to good academic standing.  This plan must be approved by the Senior Associate Dean of Academic Affairs.  A copy of the plan must be sent to WSPH student records no later than two weeks after delivery of the probation letter.
Dismissal
A student will be dismissed from a doctoral program if any one of the following occurs:
Not meeting the terms of probation.
GPA, based on the number of credit hours remaining, cannot be brought above 3.0.
Three or more grades of B- with no more repeats. One grade of C or lower in a required course with no more repeats.
Failure to meet departmental milestones, such as finishing coursework, passing qualifying or cumulative exams, defending a prospectus, and/or defending a thesis or dissertation within the time frames established by the school.
In addition, some courses have specific
prerequisite grade requirements
. Students must earn a
minimum grade of B- or B
in prerequisite courses to be eligible to enroll in subsequent coursework. Meeting the general academic standing requirements does not override prerequisite grade requirements for individual courses.
Student Appeal of Dismissal
The steps to appeal a dismissal are:
Submit a written explanation to your faculty advisor and department chair explaining extenuating circumstances or other matters pertinent to the appeal.
The department determines if the appeal has merit and submits their decision in writing and the student appeal to the Senior Associate Dean for Academic Affairs. If the department does not feel that the appeal deserves further consideration, the dismissal stands.  If the department supports the appeal, it is forwarded to the Academic Standards Committee for review.
The decision of the Academic Standards Committee shall be considered final.
Grading Scale - Graduate Courses
Grades are reported as follows:
Grades
Grade
Description
A
4.00
A minus (A-)
3.67
B plus (B+)
3.33
B
3.00
B minus (B-)
2.67
C
2.00
F
0.00
WF
0.00
I (Incomplete)
Time for Completion of Degrees
Students enrolled in any Celia Scott Weatherhead School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine degree program are required to complete the degree requirements within seven (7) years.  Public Health is an ever-changing science and delays in a course of study could result in the attrition of knowledge and skills and/or the failure to keep abreast of new developments. Within the WSPH, students must finish their degree requirements and graduate within 7 years.  In limited circumstances, the WSPH may grant extensions to the seven-year requirement.  Such extensions, however, will require the student to undertake a specific remediation plan developed through an interactive process by the WSPH.
Undergraduate Public Health Degrees
School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine
Bachelor of Public Health
Newcomb-Tulane College Requirements
Newcomb-Tulane College General Education Curriculum
Proficiency Requirements
Distribution Requirements
Additional Core Requirements
Graduate Academic Degrees
Graduate School Requirements
Master of Science (MS)
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Public Health Professional Degrees
Master of Public Health (MPH)
Master of Public Health and Tropical Medicine (MPH&TM)
Master of Health
Administration  (
MHA)
Master of Science in Public Health (MSPH)
Master of Medical Management (MMM)
Doctor of Public Health (DrPH)
Undergraduate Public Health Degrees
School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine
Bachelor of Public Health (BSPH)
The Tulane Bachelor of Science in Public Health (BSPH) degree is an academic degree addressing the health of populations and communities through instruction, service, and community based research. Grounded in a background of humanities, social science, and the liberal arts, the degree fulfills Tulane University’s campus-wide undergraduate core proficiency while stressing an additional commitment to quantitative and scientific skills. This degree program is nationally accredited and has specific competencies, or educational targets. Competencies for the BSPH cover core concepts and structures of public health, along with university-required proficiencies, writing and math skills, and a foreign language.
Newcomb-Tulane College Requirements
Newcomb-Tulane College General Education Curriculum
The Newcomb-Tulane College Core Curriculum allows students to explore a wide-range of disciplines and embodies the mission and values of the College by allowing students to have flexibility in their core curriculum courses while exploring a full-range of courses.
The core curriculum—which is composed of a minimum of 30 credits—is divided into
three
parts:
proficiency
requirements
,
distribution of knowledge
requirements, and
additional
requirements
. To ensure that students experience the breadth of knowledge at the collegiate level, AP, IB, and Cambridge A-Level courses can be used to satisfy
proficiency
requirements only in Formal Reasoning and Foreign Language.
Courses will be designated as satisfying the distribution requirements according to the content and methodology rather than the departmental affiliation of the course.
The new core curriculum general education requirements went into effect with the entering class of 2018.
Courses proposed to satisfy core requirements will be ratified by the Newcomb-Tulane Curriculum Committee.
Proficiency Requirements
Writing Skills (2 courses and 6 credits)
Tier 1: Freshman writing (
ENGL 1010
Writing
or
ENGL 1011
Writing for Academic Purposes
)
unless the student is exempt
because of
their score on the A.P/I.B./Cambridge-A level exams.
Students receiving exemption from
ENGL 1010
Writing
/
ENGL 1011
Writing for Academic Purposes
are required to take an approved writing class during their freshman year.
Appr
oved course
s
will have at
least 1/
3
rd
of the grade based upon writing (excluding in class exams), but no revision
is
required
.
Tier 2:
One
additional
writing course at the 2000 level or above taken from an approved list.
Approved courses will have at
least 1/
3
rd
of the grade based upon writing (excluding in class exams), to include revision and re-evaluation by the instructor.
​
Students
are encouraged to take the Tier-1 writing course prior to taking the Tier-2 writing course; however, students are not prohibited from taking the Tier-1 and Tier-2 courses simultaneously.
Note: creative writing courses cannot be used to satisfy the writing proficiency requirement.
Formal Reasoning (1 course and 3 credits)
One course in mathematics or symbolic logic from an approved list.
Foreign Language (0-3 courses)
The foreign language proficiency requirement is achieved in any of the following ways:
A passing
grade in a course at the 2030 level
(3
rd
semester of Tulane 4-credit hour Foreign Language
or ASLS
coursework) or higher
in accordance with
assigned placement level
.
​
A passing
grade on a Tulane-administered proficiency
exam for students with assigned placements above the 2030 level. Students who do not successfully pass the proficiency exam will be automatically placed and must successfully complete a course at the 2030 level.
A passing
grade in a course at the level of placement above 2030
.
​
Advanced Placement score of 4 or 5
in a foreign language test as noted in the
AP/IB chart
Higher-Level IB score of 5 or higher
in a foreign language test as noted in the
AP/IB chart
Cambridge A-Level score
decided
by
the
appropriate language
department.
SAT II achievement test of 640 or higher
in a foreign language.
Note:
This requirement is waived for students in B.S.E. programs.
Distribution Requirements
(A course can satisfy only one of the distribution areas.)
Mathematics and the Natural Sciences (2 courses including 1 lab science course and 7 credits)
(Those completing the B.F.A. degree need only complete 1 course with lab)
Social and Behavioral Sciences (2 courses and 6 credits)
Textual and Historical Perspectives (2 courses and 6 credits)
Aesthetics and the Creative Arts (3 credits),
which can be fulfilled in 1-3 courses.
Additional Core Requirements
The First Year Seminar (1 course, 1-3 credits)
This requirement can be satisfied by a Tulane Interdisciplinary Seminar (TIDES) course or Colloquium course (
COLQ 1010
Freshmen Colloquium Seminar (1-3 c.h.)
or
COLQ 1020
Freshman Colloquium (1-3 c.h.)
)
Public Service (2 courses)
Students develop their commitment to civic engagement through the completion of service learning courses experiences. All students will complete their public service through service-learning courses, an approved public service internship, or an approved public service research experience. These courses can also be used to satisfy other areas of general education.
To meet this requirement for graduation, all students must complete two semesters of service. One of these semesters must be at the 2000 level or above. The first experience should be completed by the 2
nd
semester of the sophomore year.
Service Learning courses require a minimum of 20 hours of service per semester. Those service-learning courses designated as requiring a minimum of 40 hours of service carry one additional credit hour. No course may carry more than 4 credits.
Race and Inclusion (1 course, 3 credits)
One course
and 3 credits. Courses that fulfill this requirement will focus on the intersections of race with power, privilege, equity, justice, and/or inclusion and will focus at least 60% their content on these issues in the United States. These courses may also be used to satisfy
proficiency
or distribution core curriculum requirements.
Global Perspectives (1 course, 3 credits)
One course
and 3 credits. Courses that fulfill this requirement will focus at least 60% content with stated
objectives
to develop historical, cultural, and societal knowledge of an area beyond the United States. These courses may also be used to satisfy
proficiency
or distribution core curriculum requirements.
For more information please visit the
Core Curriculum website
.
Graduate Academic Degrees
Graduate School Requirements
A full description of
Master's
and
PhD Degree
requirements for all students can be found in the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies section of this catalog. Students should review these policies thoroughly.  The MS and PhD programs follow the University academic requirements as well as the SPHTM degree requirements.
Master of Science (MS)
The Master of Science degree is an academic research degree with study in biostatistics, epidemiology, clinical research, or tropical medicine. Students are prepared to work on research projects as study managers, data analysts, and biomedical sciences. The MS degree requirements range from 36-42 credits.
The MS is offered in the following concentrations:
Biostatistics
Epidemiology
Clinical Investigation
Tropical Medicine
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
The Doctor of Philosophy in Public Health is an academic research degree that prepares students for research roles in a variety of public health settings. The PhD provides an understanding of theory and mechanisms of a topic area, research methods for conducting original research, and problem-solving approaches in public health settings. Students obtain in-depth knowledge of a public health field plus skills in research applications and methods. Graduates are prepared for careers in academic research, research institutes, and agencies.
The PhD in Public Health is offered in the following concentrations:
Biostatistics
Epidemiology
Environmental Health Sciences
Health Policy and Management
International Health and Sustainable Development
Social, Behavioral, and Population Sciences
Tropical Medicine
Public Health Professional Degrees
Master of Public Health (MPH)
The Master of Public Health is the recognized professional degree for careers in public health.  The MPH degree is based on a multidisciplinary field of study that addresses the health of populations throughout the world and covers evidence-based approaches to public health; public health and health care systems; planning and management to promote health; policy in public health; leadership; and communication.  The MPH degree requires 45 credits.
The MPH is offered in the following concentrations:
Community Health Sciences (online)
Disaster Management (in-person and online)
Epidemiology (in-person)
Health Policy (in-person)
Health Systems Management (in-person)
International Health and Sustainable Development (in-person)
MPH in Social, Behavioral and Population Sciences (in-person)
Master of Public Health and Tropical Medicine (MPH&TM)
The Master of Public Health and Tropical Medicine is a practice-oriented program that prepares students to recognize and control infectious diseases found in tropical and subtropical regions and developing countries. This degree is unique to Tulane and reflects a century of work with tropical diseases.  The MPH&TM requires 45 credits.
Master of Health Administration (MHA)
The Master of Health Administration, offered in-person and online, trains future managers and leaders who strive to improve the delivery of health services in diverse settings.  The MHA degree requires a total of 54 credits plus an administrative residency.  The in-person program has been accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Management Education (CAHME) since 1971.
Master of Science in Public Health (MSPH)
The Master of Science in Public Health is a public health professional degree with a science orientation. Students obtain a public health foundation with additional study in a scientific topic. Students are prepared for public health practice as well as in research The MSPH degree requires 42-47 credits.
The MSPH is offered in the following concentrations:
Biostatistics (in-person)
Industrial Hygiene (in-person and online)
Nutrition (in-person)
Doctor of Public Health (DrPH)
The Doctor of Public Health is a part-time, applied professional doctoral degree that prepares students for leadership roles in public health practice. It is intended for early to mid-level career professionals to prepare them for positions of leadership in public health practice settings. The program is comprised of foundational and advanced training in leadership, advocacy, equity, and evaluation, and grounded in a solid understanding of the impact of the social determinants of health on community and individual level outcomes. The DrPH degree requires 57 credits (15 credit hours pre-requisites and 42 credit hours doctoral coursework).
The DrPH is offered in the following concentrations:
Leadership in International Health and Sustainable Development
Leadership in Social and Behavioral Health Sciences (online)
Department of Biostatistics and Data Science
Department of Environmental Health Sciences
Department of Epidemiology
Department of Health Policy and Management
Department of International Health & Sustainable Development
Department of Social, Behavioral, and Population Sciences
Department of Tropical Medicine and Infectious Disease
Undergraduate
Major
Public Health, BSPH
Minors
Climate Change: Science and Practice Minor
Public Health Healthcare Administration Minor
Public Health Minor
Public Health Nutrition Minor
Dual and Accelerated Degrees
Dual and Accelerated Degrees
Graduate
Biostatistics, MPH
Biostatistics, MS
Biostatistics, MSPH
Biostatistics, PhD
Clinical Investigation, MS
Clinical Investigation, PhD
Community Health Sciences, MPH
Disaster Management, MPH
Environmental Health Sciences, MPH
Environmental Health Sciences, PhD
Epidemiology, MPH
Epidemiology, MS
Epidemiology, PhD
Health Administration, MHA
Health Communication and Education, MPH
Health Policy and Management, PhD
Health Policy, MPH
Health Security, MS
Health Systems Management, MPH
Industrial Hygiene, MSPH
International Health & Sustainable Development, MPH
International Health & Sustainable Development, PhD
JD/MPH or MHA Dual Degrees
Leadership for International Health and Sustainable Development, DrPH
Leadership in Social and Behavioral Sciences, DrPH
Maternal and Child Health, MPH
Nutrition, MPH
Nutrition, MSPH
Public Health and Tropical Medicine, MPHTM
Social, Behavioral, and Population Sciences, MPH
Social, Behavioral, and Population Sciences, PhD
Tropical Medicine, MS
Tropical Medicine, PhD
Graduate Certificates
Biostatistics Certificate (Graduate)
Clinical Tropical Medicine Certificate (Graduate)
Disaster Management Certificate (Graduate)
Health Education and Communication Certificate (Graduate)
Industrial Hygiene Certificate (Graduate)
Maternal and Child Health Certificate (Graduate)
Methods in Monitoring and Evaluation Certificate (Graduate)
Public Health Certificate (Graduate)
Violence Prevention Certificate (Graduate)
Graduate Internships
Dietetic Internship