MINOR: Anthropology Minor
URL: https://catalog.tulane.edu/liberal-arts/anthropology/anthropology-minor/

=== FULL REQUIREMENTS TEXT ===
Anthropology
takes a broad approach to understanding
the
varied
aspects of
what makes us human.
To
help students
understand
the
complexity
of
cu
lture
across human history
, our
department
offers courses
in
four fields—
archaeology,
biological anthropology
, linguistics, and sociocultural anthropology
.
These subdisciplines or fields are interconnected.  The minor is designed to be flexible in terms of each student’s interests, but students must achieve an advanced comprehension of the discipline through taking courses across at least two of the subdisciplines. Per Newcomb-Tulane College rules, no more than one course can count for both this minor and another major.
The anthropology minor requires five 3- to 4-credit hour ANTH classes, of which:
at least 4 are at the 2000-level or above. Of these four, only one internship course (ANTH 4560
or
ANTH 4570-01) may be counted towards the minor.
at least two anthropological subdisciplines are represented at the 2000+ level; internship courses (ANTH 4560 and ANTH 4570)c are general anthropology electives and do not count towards the subdiscipline requirement for the minor.
A minor in anthropology consists of at least five 3- to 4-credit hour ANTH classes.
The only curricular requirement is that of these five classes, only one can be at the 1000-level, and at least one 2000-level (or higher) class must come from a second anthropological subdiscipline (i.e., not all of a student’s upper level classes can be drawn from a single anthropological subdiscipline). The anthropological subdisciplines at Tulane are anthropological archaeology, biological anthropology, sociocultural anthropology, and linguistic anthropology.
Students may also elect to undertake a 3-credit-hour internship (
ANTH 4560
Internship Studies (1-3 c.h.)
or
ANTH 4570
Internship (1-3 c.h.)
) for general elective credit towards the minor; a maximum of one internship course (3 credits of ANTH 4560 OR ANTH 4570) can count towards the degree.
Per university policy, students are not permitted to share credits between minors. Only three credit hours/one course can be shared between the minor in Anthropology and a student's major.
Field of Study:
ANTH
Catalog addenda note:
Minor edits were made to this program on 6/11/2025 for clarity and to reflect updated course options.
For more information, contact the
School of Liberal Arts
.