MINOR: Artificial Intelligence Minor
URL: https://catalog.tulane.edu/science-engineering/computer-science/artificial-intelligence-minor/

=== PREREQUISITES FOUND ===
  - Academic Prerequisites
  - The program is open to all students willing to put time and work into becoming computing professionals. Students must complete the three prerequisite courses before declaring the minor. The prerequisite and minor sequence
  - he Minor in Artificial Intelligence can be accomplished in a minimum of 5 semesters. This accounts for the time it takes to complete the prerequisites.

=== FULL REQUIREMENTS TEXT ===
The Minor in Artificial Intelligence (AI) at Tulane University provides students with both the core algorithmic and computer science foundations as well as expertise in the rapidly advancing field of Artificial Intelligence, preparing them for jobs in this industry, as well as for advanced academic training in graduate programs.
More info about the Department of Computer Science and the program is available on the
department webpage
.
The Minor in Artificial Intelligence (AI) comprises of 5 courses, requiring 16 credits.
Course List
Course ID
Title
Credits
Algorithms
4
CMPS 2200
Intro to Algorithms
4
AI/ML Foundations
6
CMPS 3140
Intro Artificial Intelligence
3
CMPS 3240
Intro to Machine Learning
3
AI/ML Electives (choose two)
6
CMPS 3160
Introduction to Data Science
CMPS 3340
Introduction to Deep Learning
CMPS 3360
Data Visualization
CMPS 3370
Digital Image Processing
CMPS 4150
Multi-agent Systems
CMPS 4330
Human-Computer Interaction
CMPS 4730
Natural Language Processing
CMPS 4740
Reinforcement Learning
CMPS 4830
Computer Vision
EENS 3600
Climate Data and Analysis
ENGP 3730
Signals and Systems
CENG 4680
Data Science and Machine Learning for Scientific Research
Academic Prerequisites
CMPS 1500
Intro to CS I (4 c.h.) or
CMPS 1100
Foundations of Programming (3 c.h.)
CMPS 1600
Intro to CS II (4 c.h.)
CMPS/MATH 2170
Discrete Math (3 c.h.)
The program is open to all students willing to put time and work into becoming computing professionals. Students must complete the three prerequisite courses before declaring the minor. The prerequisite and minor sequence
does
not assume that students have any previous computer science background. Many of our students have never programmed a computer before joining their first computer science class. The department holds several hours of help sessions most days of the week to support students as they have questions while working through computer science homework.
Academic Requirements
T
o graduate with the Minor in Artificial Intelligence, students must achieve a cumulative GPA of 2.5 or above in the five courses that are required for the minor.
Timeline to Complete the Minor
T
he Minor in Artificial Intelligence can be accomplished in a minimum of 5 semesters. This accounts for the time it takes to complete the prerequisites.
Earning the Minor for CS Majors
St
udents may receive the BS in Computer Science or the Coordinate Major in Computer Science along with the Minor in Artificial Intelligence. University rules state that only one course may overlap in these cases (CMPS 2200, Intro to Algorithms). Students wishing to complete a CS Major and this Minor in AI both would be required to take 4 (12 CR) extra
non-overlapping
courses, bringing the total course for the BS in CS, e.g., to 70 CR. Note that for students pursuing the BS in Computer Science, this means that they may not fulfill the AI/Algorithms requirement using any course which they use to fulfill the requirements of the Minor in AI.
Declaring the Minor in Artificial Intelligence
T
o declare the
minor
in computer science, please complete and sign the
minor
declaration form and email it to Ms. Debbie Ramil (
dramil1@tulane.edu
), who will assign you a faculty
advisor, obtain the corresponding advisor's and the departmental chair's signatures for your form, and return the form to you. The completed form needs to be submitted to the Advising Office.  When the
minor
declaration form is processed, you will be added to the CS students mailing list.
In order to
enhance your CS education, you may also wish to join computing-focused student organizations, such as Cookies and Code, Women in Technology, and Girls Who Code. Their info is on
WaveSync
.
Field of Study:
CSAI
For more information, contact the
School of Science and Engineering
.