MAJOR: Classical Studies Major, BA
URL: https://catalog.tulane.edu/liberal-arts/classical-studies/classical-studies-major/

=== FULL REQUIREMENTS TEXT ===
The Department of Classical Studies combines literary and cultural studies, history, archaeology, art history, law, ancient political thought, philosophy, and the reception of classical antiquity to offer a program of study that is fundamentally interdisciplinary in character. Through investigation of the diverse cultures of the Greek, Roman, and ancient Mediterranean worlds, our students gain an understanding not only of various aspects of the ancient world but also of how the methodologies of different disciplines can work separately and together to widen and deepen our comprehension of human cultures in all periods. Moreover, our faculty are committed to engaging students in developing lifelong skills, including critical reading, evidence-based research, and effective writing.
Faculty in the department have expertise in Roman law, economy, and social history, Greek and Latin literature, Aegean Bronze Age archaeology, history and archaeology of the Hellenistic world, Roman art and archaeology, and ancient philosophy and science. The department offers general courses on Greek and Roman literature, culture, history, and archaeology, along with more in-depth courses on topics such as Knossos, Roman law, the archaeology of ancient Israel, race from antiquity to the US, early Christianity, ancient science, Etruscans and early Rome, ancient leadership, and Graeco-Roman Utopias and the Colonial Americas.
We invite you to explore our full course offerings and information about our major and minor programs.
Classical Studies (CLAS)
: 30* credits (10* courses) in CLAS, GREK, and/or LATN
Three of these 3-credit-hour courses must be at the 4000 level.
Double majors
: Only 27 credits (9 courses) are required for students with more than one major.
Language Requirement:
Greek or Latin courses may be used to satisfy the Newcomb-Tulane College foreign language requirement. However, any courses used to satisfy the language requirement cannot also be counted toward the major or minor.
Please note:
LATN 2030
Intro to Latin Literature (4 c.h.)
is only offered in the Fall semesters.
Tulane's
Language Learning Center
has language-specific instructions for placement testing, information about and registration for proficiency testing, links to presentation recordings, and more.
Students interested in teaching can earn certification in Latin through the
Education
program's offerings.
Students interested in pursuing graduate study in Classics should consult with their departmental adviser about the undergraduate preparation needed for graduate school.
Program String and Field of Study:
LABA_UG, CLAS
For more information, contact the
School of Liberal Arts
.