MAJOR: Design, BA
URL: https://catalog.tulane.edu/architecture/design/design-ba/

=== FULL REQUIREMENTS TEXT ===
Contact
For contact information, please visit the
School of Architecture and Built Environment website
The Bachelor of Arts in Design undergraduate major explores design as mechanism for positive change. Design students learn to integrate multiple aspects of a problem and respond with interdisciplinary solutions to address challenges of an evolving world. Our program centers design as a state of mind for building empathy, humility, and self-awareness — the first steps toward collaborating with other disciplines when solving complex problems. Rather than focusing on one specific aspect of design, our curriculum touches upon all facets within the design discipline (e.g. graphic, fashion, industrial, interior) building relationships between design innovation and engagement with society, culture, and the built environment.
Located within the School of Architecture and Built Environment, this program emphasizes design practice across disciplines, including and beyond architecture. Students will learn methods of creative problem-solving, visual communication, and spatial composition through a series of lecture-based and project-based studio courses. The Bachelor of Arts in Design program educates students to apply design thinking across diverse fields in humanities, business, and sciences and invites change-minded students to learn principles of design and methods of creative process to be effective in a range of applications. The major is intended for students interested in an interdisciplinary path through innovative approaches and collaborative projects.
Course List
Course ID
Title
Credits
Pre-Requisites
DESG 1005
Fundamentals of Design & Making
4
DESG 1105
Intro Design/Creative Thinking
3
DESG 1110
Introduction to Design History
3
Core Requirements
DESG 2005
Design Studio I
4
DESG 2305
Visual Communication & Advocacy
4
DESG 2705
Design & Society
3
DESG 3005
Design Studio II
4
DESG 3010
Prototyping
4
DESG 4005
Design Studio III
4
Electives & Capstone
Three Design Electives from the approved list
1
9
DESG 4950
Senior Capstone
3
Total Credit Hours
45
Design Majors must complete a minimum of 30 unique design credits (courses beginning with “DESG” in the course catalog.) Course equivalencies, transfer credits, and/or study abroad credits applied toward the Design Major must not exceed a total of 14-credits.
1
The Design program offers unique electives each semester. Please consult the Schedule of Classes for current Design Electives. All courses beginning with ARCH, ARST, DESG, and SISE are recognized as Design Electives. Meet with Major Advisor to request approval for alternative design related courses.
Notes on Newcomb Tulane College Core Curriculum:
All students must complete a total of
120 credits to graduate
. The total number of courses or credits dedicated to NTC core requirements and general electives will vary by student.
NTC core curriculum requirements are not listed. Questions regarding these requirements should be directed to your NTC Academic Advisor.
The following courses in the Design Program satisfy distribution areas requirement within the NTC core curriculum as noted below:
DESG 1005
Fundamentals of Design & Making (4 c.h.)
– Aesthetics and Creative Arts
DESG 1105
Intro Design/Creative Thinking (3 c.h.)
– Aesthetics and Creative Arts
DESG 1110
Introduction to Design History (3 c.h.)
– Aesthetics and Creative Arts & Global Perspectives
DESG 2120
Design for Rebellion (3 c.h.)
– Race and Inclusion
Design cannot be chosen as a second major for students pursuing BARCH or BSA Architecture majors due to overlapping curricula.
Program String and Field of Study:
ARBA_UG, DESG
For more information, contact the
School of Architecture and Built Environment
.