MAJOR: Digital Media & Marketing Communications, B.A. Major
URL: https://catalog.tulane.edu/professional-advancement/media-design/digital-media-marketing-communications/

=== FULL REQUIREMENTS TEXT ===
The mission of the Media + Design program is to provide students with the research and problem-solving skills necessary to create strategic, innovative, cultural and socially significant communication solutions. Students will understand how communication can create change through design, public relations and digital media marketing. Upon graduation, students of SoPA’s Media + Design program will be prepared to enter a highly competitive workforce in the industries of graphic design, interactive design, public relations, digital media marketing and advertising.
The Media + Design Program’s Digital Media Marketing and Communications major will equip students with content-rich and highly competitive skills that are necessary in the digital marketing and communication industries. In the program, students will demonstrate mastery in the following: fundamentals of digital marketing that will address common marketing challenges including research, planning, implementation and evaluation; articulating the value that digital marketing campaigns across SEO, paid search, social media, mobile, email and display marketing; conducting audience research to recognize key performance indicators and comprehend marketing analytics which will ultimately shape campaign success; understanding the legal, ethical and cross-cultural implications that digital marketing campaigns are grounded in; and, measuring and analyzing the impact of digital marketing campaigns through the use of various platforms and tools.
Tulane’s School of Professional Advancement awards the Bachelor of Arts in Digital Media Marketing and Communications following the successful completion of 120 credits, including 36 credits in the major.
Blocks
Blocks notate the prescribed order of coursework. Courses within each block may be taken at the same time.
Course List
Course ID
Title
Credits
Block 1
6
DDSN 1100
Digital Design Foundations
DDSN 2103
Intro to Copywriting
Block 2
9
MDES 2110
Media Ethics & Equity
MDES 2210
Media Research
MDES 2300
Digital Media Principles & Strategy
Block 3
6
MDES 3300
Creating Digital Content
MDES 3450
Brand & Campaign Strategy
Block 4
9
MDES 3310
Digital Media Analytics & Reporting
MDES 3320
CRM and Digital Media
MDES 3330
SEO & SEM Strategies
Block 5
6
MDES 4210
Portfolio & Professional Practices
MDES 4150
Capstone: Media & Design
Total Credit Hours
36
Program String and Field of Study:
PAUBA_UG, MDDM
For more information, contact the
School of Professional Advancement
.