MAJOR: Political Science/ International Relations Major
URL: https://catalog.tulane.edu/liberal-arts/political-science/political-science-international-relations-major/

=== FULL REQUIREMENTS TEXT ===
Students majoring in the political science major with the international relations concentration (PSIR) are challenged to think creatively and analytically about historically and currently relevant topics. Through participation in lectures, seminars, internships, and independent studies, our students develop critical reasoning, communication, data analysis, and reflectional skills.
Many graduates go on to obtain advanced degrees in law, business, public policy, political science, and public administration. Others apply their degree to relevant career employment, pursuing work in political campaigns, lobbies, non-profit foundations, think tanks, corporations, public relations firms, news organizations, government, and international organizations.
TO DECLARE A POLS, PSIR OR PSDV MAJOR
and for information about undergraduate advising in Political Science, please go to:
https://liberalarts.tulane.edu/departments/political-science/undergraduate-advising
Please note, you cannot declare two political science majors. You must choose either POLS, PSIR or PSDV.
Course List
Course ID
Title
Credits
Required Course:
POLS 2010
Scope/Methods Poli Sci
3
or
PSDV 2010
Scope and Methods for International Development
Three Courses from the following:
9
POLA 2100
American Government (or a 4 or 5 on the A.P. American Government Exam)
POLC 2300
Comparative Politics (or a 4 or 5 on the A.P. Comparative Politics Exam)
POLI 2500
International Relations
PSDV 2400
Introduction to International Development
POLT 2700
Pol Thought In The West
Economics Component
1
PSIR majors must successfully complete ONE of the following courses:
3
ECON 1020
Introduction to Macroeconomics
POLI 3540
Internationl Political Economy
ECON 3370
World Economy
POLC 6110
Comparatv Political Econ
Foreign Language Component
Students must complete one additional three-credit course beyond the core profiency foreign-language requirement.
3
Electives
2
SIX courses, at least THREE of which must be in either International Relations (POLI) and/or Comparative Politics (POLC). Not more than FOUR of the electives may be in any single subfield (POLA, POLC, POLI, or POLT).
18
Total Credit Hours
36
1
A course in the political economy department (such as
PECN 3040
Comp & Intl Pol Econ (3 c.h.)
) that is approved by the political science department’s director of undergraduate studies may also be considered.
POLI 3540
Internationl Political Economy (3 or 4 c.h.)
and
POLC 6110
Comparatv Political Econ (4 c.h.)
can count for either the Economics Component or an Elective but not both.
2
Not more than FOUR of the electives may be in any single subfield (POLA, POLC, POLI, PSDV or POLT).
Pre-requisites
For all major tracks (POLS, PSIR, & PSDV),students must have successfully completed
POLS 2010
Scope/Methods Poli Sci (3 c.h.)
or
PSDV 2010
Scope and Methods for International Development (3 c.h.)
and the correlating  introductory course in order to enroll in any course above the 3000-level.  For example, students must complete
POLA 2100
American Government (3 c.h.)
in order to enroll in POLA 4000 or 6000-level courses.  Faculty may choose to add other pre-requisites to any course and are encouraged to do so in any case in which they feel that doing so would improve student preparation for and performance in their own courses.  Non-major juniors and seniors may enroll in courses at the 4000-level or above with the consent of the instructor.  The Political Science department enforces all pre-requisites.  Students must have successfully completed a pre-requisite the semester before registering for any class.  The department reserves the right to drop students who are missing the pre-requisite from the course without notice.
Level of Course Work
Students must successfully complete at least three courses at the 4000 or 6000 level.
An Honor's thesis in Political Science will count as one 4000-level elective
One Political Science independent study may count as a 4000-level elective but only if it is taken for 3 credits
Students may count one Political Science internship course (
POLS 4560
Internship (1,3 c.h.)
Internship) toward the major requirements, however it will not count toward the three required 4000- or 6000-level electives.
Program String & Field of Study:
LABA_UG, PSIR
For more information, contact the
School of Liberal Arts
.