MAJOR: Public Relations, B.A. Major
URL: https://catalog.tulane.edu/professional-advancement/media-design/public-relations-ba/

=== FULL REQUIREMENTS TEXT ===
The mission of the Media + Design program is to provide students with the research and problem-solving skills necessary to create strategic, innovative, cultural and socially significant communication solutions. Students will understand how communication can create change through design, public relations and digital media marketing. Upon graduation, students of SoPA’s Media + Design program will be prepared to enter a highly competitive workforce in the industries of graphic design, interactive design, public relations, digital media marketing and advertising.
The Media + Design Program’s Public Relations major will equip students with content-rich and highly competitive skills that are necessary in the public relations and strategic communication industries. In the program, students will demonstrate  mastery in the following: the fundamentals of the public relations process including research, planning, implementation and evaluation - the steps necessary for campaign development; writing for strategic communications adhering to the standards set forth by the industry; conducting primary and secondary research to aid in campaign development; understanding the legal, ethical and cross-cultural issues that pertain to public relations campaigns; and, measuring and analyzing the impact of strategic communication campaigns that include stakeholder-specific strategies and tactics (e.g. social media, earned media) through the use of various platforms and tools.
Tulane’s School of Professional Advancement awards the Bachelor of Arts in Public Relations following the successful completion of 120 credits, including 36 credits in the major.
Blocks
Blocks notate the prescribed order of coursework. Courses within each block may be taken at the same time.
Major Requirements
Course List
Course ID
Title
Credits
Block 1
9
DDSN 1100
Digital Design Foundations
MDES 1120
Media Writing
MDES 2200
Principles of Public Relations
Block 2
9
MDES 2110
Media Ethics & Equity
MDES 2210
Media Research
MDES 2120
Media Law
Block 3
9
MDES 3210
Digital Public Relations
MDES 3220
PR Writing
MDES 3240
PR Case Studies
Block 4
9
MDES 3230
Media Relations
MDES 4150
Capstone: Media & Design
MDES 4210
Portfolio & Professional Practices
Total Credit Hours
36
Program String and Field of Study:
PAUBA_UG, MDPR
For more information, contact the
School of Professional Advancement
.